Understanding generative modeling
Hi, and welcome to this AI workshop: Hands-on with GANs using dense neural networks. Thanks to the popularity of applications such as ChatGPT, generative modeling is all the rage nowadays. And we'll start this course by understanding generative modeling. And then we'll move on to building and training generative adversarial networks, one of the very first generative models, and something that you can build and train on your own on your local machine. Before we understand the basics of generative models, let's contrast them with models that we are familiar with. Discriminative models. Discriminative models discriminate between different kinds of data instances, and it's quite likely that you've encountered such models as you explore the world of machine learning. Once a model has been trained, a discriminative model will classify a record that it has never seen before into one of predefined classes or categories. And here is a very high-level understanding of how discriminative models work. Now, let's say you have a number of data instances, let's call that X, and for each data instance, you have the corresponding label represented by Y. This is the training data that you'll use to train your discriminative model. And during model training, the discriminative models try to capture the conditional probability of Y given X. What's the probability that the output is Y for this particular record X. And this lets us answer questions such as given an image, what's the probability that this is an image of a cat? Or given a bank customer, what is the probability that this particular customer will take a loan with us? The objective of the discriminative model is to figure out this conditional probability of Y given X. The training data is all the records that you have available represented by the points that you see here on screen. You take the numeric attributes of records and you plot them in space and you get points on screen, such as the ones you see here. Now, these might be records belonging to different classes or categories. Imagine that they are handwritten digit images and those images are of zeros or ones. Now, how a discriminator model works is that it tries to find a line or a plane in space that allows it to separate records that belong to different classes or categories. And using this hyperplane that it has identified in space separating the records, it will then identify those records as being zeros or ones. Not all models function this way by drawing a plane in space, but this is a way to imagine how discriminative models work. Discriminative models can be thought of as statistical models that determine boundaries in observed data, and use these boundaries to make decisions or predictions. Now, generative models don't classify or categorize data. Generative models can generate or create new data instances that did not exist before. The training process of a generative model allows the model to describe in probabilistic terms what a new instance might look like, and when you sample from the model, that's when you're able to generate new instances that did not exist before. Here is another way to think of a generative model. Let's say you have a set of data instances X and corresponding labels Y. Generative models capture the joint probability distribution of X and Y. If no Y labels exist, as is often the case when you're working with generative models, the generative models simply try to capture the probability distribution of all of the X instances. If a generative model is able to understand and mimic the probability distribution of the training data, it can then imitate that distribution to create new data of the same kind. Let's go back to the same visualization and use that to describe a generative model. A generative model tries to learn the probability distribution of the training data. So here are the same data points. And let's assume that they're images of handwritten digits. A generative model will understand the distribution of the images that belong to different categories or classes. And once it knows that distribution, it will be able to generate new images of the same kind. As you might imagine, generative models are much harder to train than discriminative models. A discriminative model just has to know that one looks very different from a nine, whereas a generative model has to capture complex correlations that exist in the data. This is what a Figure 5 looks like. This is what eight looks like. And then using those correlations, it has to be able to generate new figures of five, eight, six, seven, and so on. That's a much harder problem to solve.