Analyzing drift trends
- [Instructor] What are the best practices in analyzing drift? An important decision to make is in choosing the right time intervals for drift measurement. Note that this interval may be different from model to model. Choosing the right interval is critical for accurate and yearly detection of drift. The interval may be calendar-based. We can compute drift on a daily, weekly, or monthly basis. We can also compute based on the number of samples observed. We can compute drift for every 1,000 inference data points collected. We need to ensure that there are enough data points in each interval so that it aids reliable drift results. If there are too few samples in an interval, the drift measurement may not be stable, and we will observe oscillating drift numbers between the intervals. On the other hand, if the interval is too high, drift measurement will be stable, but the drift can go undetected for a long time, impacting the effectiveness of the process. At each interval, drift is computed, and the summary statistics observed is persisted to a database for future reference. What is the process of analyzing drift over time? To begin with, we will always see some amount of drift for all models, but we need to decide if that is significant enough to take corrective action. For this, it is recommended to set threshold bands for normal and abnormal drift. If the drift goes out of band, then action should be taken. In the example to the right, the threshold is set at 20%. Look for drift over consecutive time intervals to ensure that the drift stays outside the threshold. Analyze if drift stays consistently outside the threshold. In this example, Drift B goes out of threshold and stays there, but Drift C comes back inside the threshold after going out once. Take action when drift stays consistently outside the threshold. In the example shown, only Drift B stays outside and needs corrective action.