Discovering root causes for drift
- [Instructor] Once we have determined that there is drift and corrective action is needed, we need to find out the root cause for the drift. There are several types of drift trends observed for both feature and concept drift. The symptoms determined what the potential root causes are. First, there is sudden concept drift. This is an abrupt change in drift values at a given interval and then drift stays outside in the future intervals. This is usually because of a change in the business ecosystem that has impacted the relationships between the features and the target. The fix here is to analyze and retrain the model. Next, there could be a sudden feature drift where there is an abrupt change in feature drift values. There could be many reasons here, but mostly associated with feature data generation and processing in production. There could be equipment errors producing incorrect data. There could be data processing errors. There could be changes in user behavior. It is required to fix the source issues and then ensure that the data errors are corrected. Next, there could be cyclic or seasonal concept drift. Here, drift goes outside the threshold at specific days or times, but comes back to normal in other intervals. The root cause here is that there is seasonal user behavior during these times, like weekends or holiday seasons. The recommendation here is to add the time element to the feature data and retrain the model so the model is sensitive to the time interval too. Finally, there can be gradual drift where the drift increases slowly over time. This can be due to gradual change in business or user behavior or equipment degradation. Again, this needs retraining or repairing the source based on the root cause.