Storytelling with data
- Let's talk about responsible ways to tell stories with data. The heart of the matter is that we are often influenced to make specific types of visualizations based on confirming or refuting some claim we tend to believe in already. Charts can be empowering if well-designed, but they can also deceive viewers, regardless of whether they're designed with ill intent or not. There will be times working as an analyst or data scientist that you'll be encouraged to portray some data in a way that doesn't accurately represent the insights you discover. It's an active choice to refrain from lying and using data and visualizing data can have substantial ethical consequences. Let's dive into tactics to create data stories that use ethical research and protect basic human rights. While with many AI systems, we often measure fairness issues by the harms they cause. We can investigate visualizations by how they portray a message. It's also very easy to mislead ourselves and others when we misinterpret visualizations. The most common ways a visualization can exaggerate a message is through truncated axes, aspect ratios, or portraying quantity in misleading ways. What you see now as a pair of bar graphs displaying the exact same data. Here, the data showed on the left was used to emphasize the difference between the top tax rates if Bush era tax breaks were ended. Although the data presented as the same the relative areas of each bar differ greatly. The audience is then left with the impression that the difference is much greater than it is in reality. The length or height should be proportional to the numbers you're trying to represent. Therefore, it's advisable to put the baseline of the chart at zero. In another example, the graphs here show the same data plotted as a line chart. One with an aspect ratio of two to one and the other four to one. The angle of the line is clearly greater in the two to one depiction and can convince the viewer that the slope is therefore greater in this case. One would need to analyze the graphs closer to notice that the slope is in fact the same, although the angle of the graphs may be different. We need to explicitly consider ethical principles when creating and distributing visualizations. Basing our ethical visualization strategies around three key concepts, transparency, integrity, and accountability. Of course, the goal of all visualizations is to help users better understand the data and glean new insights. Regardless of intent, a graphic that's confusing or misleading is unethical since it creates misunderstanding for the audience. We should also act with honesty when creating and distributing visualizations, even when the slides in the face of some organizational priorities. Lastly, we must accept responsibility for all decisions. We need to think about the consequences of visualization can have on viewers, especially given that there are various potential hidden aspects that impact how data's interpreted. These can include the process of data collection and data preparation, decisions about design complexity, and the context visualization. Some of the most common pit holes in creating responsible data visualization are poor design or labeling, displaying too much or too little information, displaying dubious information, not clearly communicating uncertainty, suggesting misleading patterns or pandering to existing cognitive biases. Here are a few tips to avoid deceptive data storytelling. Include testing your graphics before you make graphic public. You can ask colleagues things like, "What did you learn from this?", to really understand what message comes across. This can be done informally with friends or family or with colleagues. Flex your muscle memory to collaborate on visualizations and listen to the people who are seeing your graphic and learn what they're getting from it. Visualization operates at the intersection of science, communication, and engineering. Professionals in these fields have specific ethical requirements as scientists, engineers, and journalists, because they possess a great deal of power over how people ultimately make use of data, both in visual patterns and the conclusions they draw. People who visualize data should work to make the invisible visible. We should attempt to convey the hidden labor, uncertainty, and disproportionate impacts associated with the data at hand. We should be proponents of user privacy tell data stories with empathy for people and encourage teams to think about the people that data represents. Lastly, there's power involved in creating visualizations. We can act as user advocates by challenging structures of power in speaking up about unethical analytical behavior. Investigate and document the assumptions that you believe your visualizations have created. This allows you to seek out alternative explanations for the phenomena and gain a better overall data understanding.