Setting up Colab and Google Drive
- We'll implement the code for all of the demos in this course using Colab notebooks. And we'll have our data set loaded onto Google Drive. So here I am, logged in with my user account on my Google Drive, And I've already uploaded the data set that we are going to be using. That is the flickr_dataset. You can see that it's in a sub folder within my My Drive folder. I'm going to click through, and show you how the data looks. Within the flickr_dataset folder there is a zip file called flickr8k.zip. This is the zip file that contains the images that will be are training data, as well as the captions corresponding to those images. Now what I've done is, I've unzipped those files, so you can see the structure of what the images look like, and how the captions are set up. The unzipped image files are in this images sub folder. And the captions file is this captions.txt file, that you see here on screen. So let's click through to images, and see what an image looks like. You can see that there are a number of JPG files in here. I'm going to click on one of these files, and you'll see a sample image that will be part of our training data. This particular image depicts some kind of scenery. There is water, there are trees, and so on. Now the remaining images are the same way. You can click on some other images, and see what the data looks like. Another sample image here is one of dogs playing. Now that you've understood, what the individual images look like. Let's head back to flickr_dataset. Let's quickly glance at the captions.txt file, and see how the captions for these images are set up. You can see that every row in this text file contains two bits of information. The first is the name of the image file, and the second is a text description of what's in that image file. As you can see from the highlighted portion in this dataset, every image contains five different text descriptions. So there are five captions for each image, and you'll see this pattern across this entire dataset. Now that we've seen what the dataset looks like, let's head over to Colab and log ourselves in. Colab is a project made freely available by Google for researchers and students to build and prototype their machine learning models or any kind of Python code, not just ml. Colab offers cloud hosted Jupyter Notebooks, which can be run on CPUs or GPUs for absolutely free. There is a limit to the GPU use, but you should be able to run all of the demos of this course, just fine. Go ahead and sign in. Colab requires a Google account for you to be able to use Colab. The Google account that I've used to log into Colab is the same Google account that I used to log into Google Drive. And where I've uploaded the dataset that I used to train my model. When you first log into Colab, you should see a dialogue pop up like this. Choose the Upload option and select Choose file and I'll upload the notebook that contains my code for image captioning without attention. Once the notebook has been uploaded and is available in Colab, I'm just going to set up a few configuration settings. First, I'll go to Tools and Settings, and enable line numbers on the individual code cells. Click on Editor. Within this, you'll find an option for Show line numbers. That's what I've enabled, and I'm going to save this setting. Now we have line numbers for each cell, that's easier for you to follow along. The next change I make is to change the runtime type under the Runtime menu. The image captioning code is fairly processing heavy, which is why I want to run this code using a GPU accelerator rather than on a CPU. So I'm going to select the GPU option here in Notebook settings, and hit Save. This means all of the code that I execute will run on the GPU. This will allow us to train fairly decent models by running the training process for about 30 to 60 minutes. Not longer.