AIOps defined
- Along with new technologies, we get new terms and definitions describing specific uses of that technology. AI is no different. And as new uses of AI come to the forefront, so do new names for those uses. Case in point, AIOps, a term you'll hear in IT circles, if you haven't already. What is AIOps? Based on the established naming convention of DevOps, ITOps, BizOps, et cetera, which translate to development operations, IT operations, and business operations, respectively, you'd assume AIOps stood for AI operations, right? Not so much. AIOps as a term was originally introduced by Gartner and it has the following formal definition. AIOps combines big data and machine learning to automate IT operations processes, including event correlation, anomaly detection, and causality determination. So AIOps is short for AI, as in artificial intelligence, for ITOps. What does that mean? Here's Priya Mohan with a useful analogy. - Think about how you have these smart homes with those smart thermostats, right? Usually, smart homes have thermostats with auto option. What that does is that it would not go below a certain temperature and not go above a certain temperature. It's very similar to that. - In AIOps, we take existing IT operations and integrate specialized AI systems that add intelligent data aggregation, signal processing and extraction, and ongoing analysis. The goal of using AIOps is better observability of what's happening within the IT systems, optimization and lower cost of running the system, better prediction monitoring, and remediation of issues within the system itself. In short, AIOps leverages the power of machine learning and AI to improve IT operations.