How AIOps works in the real world
- Having a definition is a good starting point, but with complex multi-domain concepts like AIOps, it's useful to build our understanding on real-world examples. So I called up some experts. - And the main goal of AIOps are to automate routine tasks. - This is Priya Mohan. She is a senior associate working with the technology risk management group at KPMG. - This include automating tasks that are mundane operation tasks like freeing up IT personnel to focus on more strategic and high volume activities. It could also mean analyzing modern IT infrastructure that generate vast amount of data, and then AIOps can quickly sift through those data and find the relevant insights. - So the idea of AIOps is to leverage the power of AI to do the kind of automation, monitoring, and big data evaluation tasks that humans technically can do, but are not the best at doing because it's repetitive or requires your undivided focused attention at all times or involves processing massive amounts of data and detecting patterns in that data on a continuous basis. Take Priya's earlier example of a smart home thermostat. While a standard thermostat monitors the temperature in the room and reacts in real time, a smart thermostat can monitor the temperature fluctuations in the room over time and then detect patterns like if the temperature rises steadily from 20 degrees Celsius to 22 degrees Celsius over a 30 minute period, it will continue to rise to the 24 degrees setting within the next hour, so the air conditioner should be turned on ahead of time at 22 degrees to keep the temperature at 24 degrees. This example translates directly to AIOps. Here's Priya again. - One of the scenarios would be energy-efficient data center management. So for example, let's say we have a data center, and it consumes vast amount of electricity, of course, right? You have all of these servers, switches, and routers and all of these things in a data center. Cooling these data centers is one of the significant challenges that it can be energy intensive. So reducing the energy consumption of data centers without compromising performance can significantly decrease the carbon footprint. So in order to achieve that, we would use AIOps. We would collect data sensors throughout the data centers, measure temperature, humidity, like server loads, energy consumption. And this data is collected. And what happens is that when we implement an AIOps tool, it detects anomalies. Machine learning basically monitors the data for anomalies, and if there's any server racks, for example, are overheating or using more energy than usual, then the system can automatically identify this. - What Priya describes here is very much that scenario where an AI takes over the tasks humans have been doing and completes those tasks better and more efficiently than humans, which sounds concerning until you start looking at what that work actually entails. Here's Kumaran Ponnambalam, principal engineer for AI at Outshift by Cisco to elaborate. - There are two areas you can look at it. One is essentially all the logging and tracing that happens across all services, hardware, software, and there's tons of logs that have been collected by the IT teams. So what essentially we can do, what AI does is look at these logs to identify if there are any possible issues happening, any anomalies happening, and this is with regard to both the system performance, as well as from the security aspect, and then create alerts that there is a problem that is possibly happening here. The second level is that it does as root cause analysis as to why the problem could be happening, trying to point out that the problem is happening because here might be a problem in this specific server or this specific instance. So the IT team can drill down pretty quickly and solve the problem. - So AI isn't so much replacing IT people in their jobs as it is assisting them in their work and helping them perform tasks and analyze data in ways that would otherwise be time consuming, error-prone, even impossible. Another place AIOps can make a big difference is in the intersection between IT operations and the rest of the enterprise. - Another area it is pretty helpful is kind of where the IT team helps the other folks in a given enterprise, like, you know, in terms of providing knowledge basis or knowledge support. So rather than having an IT person helping you all the time, you can actually talk to like a chat bot to ask questions around, you know, I'm having this thing going on with my laptop or desktop, and that a chatbot can also help with, you know, in solving the problem before you get to a live agent. - So think the assistance you can get right now from ChatGPT and Bing and Bard specifically trained and configured to help you with your enterprise system and your enterprise data. In other words, even if you don't work in IT, there's a good chance you'll be interfacing with AIOps in the near future through an AIOps support assistant. This type of AI assistance for ITOps is what's available right now today, which begs the question, what's next? What's on the AIOps horizon? Here's Kumaran with some projections. - Where it is going to go to pretty soon is essentially with generative AI coming in with the kind of large language models coming in. They have a lot more power in terms of reading all this complex information that is being generated and be able to like summarize information. Like I can look at the logs when an incident happens and create an incident report, or I can look at all the tickets that are going on, you know, on a ticketing application and be able to come up with, again. summaries, create knowledge basis out of it, when a new incident happened, look at the previous tickets and figure out if the solution already exists and pull it out and give it to the person who created the incident. Another area that's also coming up with automatic deployments and automatic configuration, can it actually configure a network router? Can it actually configure an application automatically without a lot of human intervention? So that's also in what we call today codepilots or copilots. So it's pretty much in the same area that it can create configuration for you based on your requirement. - Based on this, one thing is pretty clear, AIOps is changing the world of IT professionals in significant ways. And as the wave of AI pushes forward, IT workers need to figure out ways to ride that wave, so they can stay ahead. A big part of that process is getting the whole organization on board and making the case for AIOps as an investment. Priya has some ideas on how to get that process started. - Knowing where your current IT system is and knowing where the needs are and finding the right solutions that fits those needs, I think that would probably be the best approach. Define the IT operation needs and even quantify those needs, right? I want my downtime to reduce from 7% to 1%, for example, right? So quantify those needs, and then based on those needs, identify the right AI operations. And then once these tools, the appropriate tools, are identified, have them deployed. Test them, and then deploy them. Make sure that they are working as intended, and quantify those metrics and making sure that you you're hitting those metrics as you test them. - With a solid plan in place, it's time to get management on board. For that to happen, you need to take a step away from IT and look at the business as a whole and its priorities. - Usually, C-suite and leadership teams, they are more metrics-driven, and they understand the value when we quantify it in terms of money saved, time saved, resources saved, or business brought in, or additional revenue brought in. So bringing in those data points might also help them differentiate between what's happening at the moment without these AIOps tools in place versus what is happening, what is expected to happen with those AIOps tools. It also would be very valuable to be open and showcase both the pros and cons of deploying these machines and showcasing the value that it brings versus the cost of bringing these technology in, so that the leadership team or the person on the other side of the table knows that and feels comfortable that we're providing a holistic picture, not just the good parts about AIOps, right? And all of that also takes some time and money. So making sure that we incorporate that as part of the strategy and the presentation might help them make a much more informed decision. - Okay, here I have to stop for a moment. If we take a few steps back and look at all of this together, what we're really talking about when we talk about AIOps is handing big parts of the mission and business-critical operations of enterprise over to machines. That doesn't feel quite right. Anyone who works in large organizations or has used a computer or even a smartphone knows first, creativity and novel ideas come from human minds as they work through problems, and second, when things go wrong, you need a human in the middle to troubleshoot because, more often than not, the problem originated from the computer system or automated processes. I put this question to Priya and Kumaran, and what they told me shifted my perspective in a surprising way. Adding AI to IT operations puts renewed focus on the importance of a human in the mix. Here's some of what they had to say. - The systems that we build can only do what they learned, right? At least until now, we are not seeing those that can create new things that the humans have not figured out. Usually humans figure out, figure it out first, then they teach the system how to do it. So I think the human in the loop is always going to play a role when it comes to AI because the AI usually augments what humans do. So you should actually be more at a higher level of value add, which is essentially creating solutions, creating architectures, you know, creating and processes and systems. And similarly, you should be able to program these systems because a lot of these systems need inputs to programs. And then I think it all, of course, comes with its own risks and factors and bias and all those things, which need to be worked upon. - AIOps, in my opinion, is an augmentation to human intelligence. It's not a replacement. Humans ultimately have to make the decisions when it comes to the operations of the business itself. IT enables the business, right? So, ultimately there will always be scenarios that are so novel and complex that they fall outside of the purview of what AIOps systems are trained on. So in those cases, human judgment and experience will be very crucial. There can also be ethical and moral judgments that's needed in certain scenarios. We also expect that there would be continuous learning and improvement. As AIOps gets more advanced, we will have several different AIOps tools being specialized in a particular task or particular, you know, problem solving skill. So as that becomes the future, right, like as we get more specialized with these AIOps, the need to have a human in the loop may reduce, but I think we're still going to be there to make sure that we evolve our processes with the advancements that come with it. - And there's another reason why a human in the loop becomes more important than ever when we start incorporating AI into our already heavily computerized and automated systems. Computers are not moral agents. They don't know right from wrong, help from harm, or what consequences their actions have in the real world. They also can take responsibility for their actions because they are not independent agents, they are software. As an example of this, Priya brought up the issue of AI bias and how it can manifest in an AIOps environment. - AIOps solutions can potentially be biased, both intentionally and unintentionally. Well, let's say if we're using historical data to train the models, it's possible that these historical data may contain biases. The model will learn from those biases. Like for example, if a system has been historically misconfigured in a certain way, the AIOps system might consider that the configuration is normal. Like for example, let's say we have a server that has a configuration failure or configurational issue that causes backup failures repetitively on a particular date or like, you know, it causes backup failures twice a month on a particular date, right? If you use this data to train the model, then the model will think that this is a norm. So when this occurs in the future, it will not catch those anomalies basically. So that's an example of how biases from historical data can propagate into the AIOps tool as well. We can also have sampling bias. So let's say if you have a data that doesn't represent full spectrum of the ITOps scenario, this can be be an example of, let's say, you have a multinational organization, and say you've only used the IT operations data from the US and you're now trying to deploy the ITOps tool that was trained on US data to a different country that's operating in a different time zone, then it may cause unintentional bias that it may think that at a certain time, you know, these certain functions don't happen. So if they don't happen in a different country, that's because of the time difference, it may, you know, not detect them as anomalies. You want to make sure that the data that we feed into the system are representative of the entire population where we expect to deploy these AIOps systems. That's just a quick example. And of course, we could have all different sorts of biases like confirmation bias. IT teams may lean heavily on AIOps recommendations without even questioning them. - So, as with all the other technology we surround ourselves with in our modern world, AIOps was invented to help us do the things a computer can do so we humans can do the things we humans are good at doing like building newer and better AIOps tools, add human judgment and business sense to critical decision making, and make sure the tools we use are ethical and enable us to build ethical IT and business practices, artificial intelligence for IT operations.