Embedding ethics by design
- [Instructor] In the last video, we briefly talked about the risk emerging from unintended versus deliberate misuse. This is where building systems that are ethical by design helps. I advocate embedding ethics by design. But what does that mean? It means every component of an AI project must consider ethics at the beginning and not leave it as an afterthought. I have conducted several workshops on embedding ethics by design and seen that the abstract nature of ethics makes it challenging to operationalize trustworthy AI. One of the biggest blockers developers face is how to put ethical business expectations into ML code. Over the years, I have emphasized that adopting ethics needs to be woven into an organization's culture. It is not a term only associated with AI data science or technology in general. It is an organization-wide change. It requires defining roles and key principles and drafting answers for questions like what it means to be fair, how to explain the internals of an algorithm and facilitate trust in its decision power. Who should be the right group to audit an AI solution? Deciding what constitutes the training set. Does that data comply with privacy regulations? Is it a good representation of the problem to be solved? What are the criteria to assess model performance? How to test a model for bias? How to check and ensure that the model behaves as intended? This list of questions can quickly become overwhelming. So let me suggest an easy hack. In a nutshell, being ethically proactive involves a mindset shift and requires thinking on behalf of the end user, society and and environment about the potential ethical implications, risk and benefits. And when should this thought process start? Ideally, it must be thought through right at the ideation stage, before we even start to build the technology. Implementing such best practices requires work at the root level, that is sensitizing everyone involved in the process, mainly developers as they work on codifying the ethics into the AI application. One possible challenge in building ethical systems is that it is difficult for any single developer or expert to have answers to all the questions. In that case, here is what I propose. Whenever developing a solution, think of your response In the absence of any regulatory rules. Now incorporate what changes and additional steps you would need to adopt if confronted and audited by an ethics expert. Moreover, finding answers becomes easier when we understand that it is not an algorithm that is ethical or unethical, good or bad. It is after all a sequence of steps. Rather, the design choices go wrong, be it the premise of the problem itself, the input data collection, the choice of algorithm, or the inference of model outcome. What are some of the responsible design choices you make to embed ethics in your AI projects? While making those design choices, one often struggles with the intertwined nature of AI that involves scenarios where harms come deeply infused with the benefits. We will talk more on this next.