The three iron triangle dimensions
- Okay, you have three collaborative UX patterns under your belt. Number one, AI noticed. Number two, suggested prompts. And number three, feedback opportunities. Why do these things matter? These patterns help to cement that pilot human, copilot AI relationship. Why does this relationship so important to craft? Well, you know, when you have a person you like, you want to have a good relationship, it's work, right? But what's different is that this AI thing, powered by the copilot stack is so powerful, you got to get the relationship right. And the way to reinforce it is in the user experience. Why? Because sometimes this AI has hallucinatory behavior, what it's called, but mathematically it's just non-determinism. You don't know what to expect. So your notion of quality has to change. The old definition of quality doesn't fit this new kind of quality in this copilot stack. And also think of this as not a quality problem that has to be erased, it brings new opportunities. And so that brings us to the iron triangle, also called the prioritization triangle. I'm sure you've seen it before, quality, speed, cost. Just pick two, which you're always told. In this case, when it comes to non-deterministic quality, you only can pick two. One is speed and the other is cost. It's because of the fact that you're building on a technology that is evolving so rapidly in a way that experts are saying is just going to get better. But right now, the speed is slow, and the cost, it's kind of expensive. So quality is governed by how you work with speed and cost, and how you engineer, and how you design, how you engineer the real thing to work faster and cost less and how you design the UX so that it feels faster, and it maybe makes you want to pay more for something better. This is a collaborative UX approach, and it's intrinsic to using the copilot stack. You might think it's a kind of a pain. Well, the fact is it's just new. So let's keep going. Going deeper into the copilot stack, figuring out how to manage speed and cost in clever ways.