Dimension 1: Practices for speed
- So let's talk about speed. There was a time when computers were really slow. In particular, copying a file off of a physical mechanical floppy disc took forever. So Apple invented this simple idea based upon human perception. To discover that, if the computer says copying and you wait, you wait, you wait, and it's done. That feels like a lot more time than if it shows what's called a progress bar where it shows a line filling up over time. That was a way to make you feel like, "Oh, it's not that... It doesn't take that long at all." This is how design works. It alters perception and it makes something feel better. In the modern day, when you use something like ChatGPT, what does it do? It's stream text out character by character. It looks like it's typing. Actually, it takes long to compute the entire thing, but rather than wait for it to plop all out, it's streaming character by character. So you perceptually feel like it's taking less time, but it's also a technical lift to be able to do that. So we went through three collaborative UX patterns. Let's give you a fourth, Status Updates. That's the AI being transparent to why it's maybe taking so long. Think of when you're going to like a restaurant and you're like, "Oh my gosh, when's my salad coming?" You look at the kitchen, all the lettuce is piled up over there. "Oh, okay, it's going to take a while." So you can give status updates. "Oh, I'm doing this, I'm doing this, I'm doing this," while the thing is processing. And the Copilot can make you the user feel better knowing that it's not being lazy. The fifth collaborative UX pattern is to give citations for information that the Copilot generates, whenever possible. Because it turns out that the AI itself can sometimes find source material, and that source material is possibly better than just being transparent. And you could display it, and the person who is experiencing it can say, "Huh, thank you for looking this stuff up. I want to learn more." And the reason why you want that is because you want the human to be able to think harder. So the pilot should question the information coming back. And the Copilot speedily provides references that they can browse while they're doing other things. It's kind of like going to a doctor's office and the doctor's office is taking a while to get into. And there's all these health magazines. And so having these references citations available makes that weight feel so much better. So with these kinds of collaborative UX patterns, what you can do is you can make time feel different, but most importantly, this kind of AI you can use as a developer building a Copilot to be your Copilot in building things. What does that mean? Let's jump into the code to show you how that's done.