Dimension 2: Practices for costs
- So we covered speed which is a fundamental thing that designer is good at working with. It's about altering perception. I thought it was going to take that long, but it felt so quick. Now, we're going to jump into cost. Cost is a little harder to fake. You know, that's more expensive than that thing over there. But don't forget, developers love hard problems. So consider all of these cool new open AI models, DaVinci, GPT-4. But DaVinci had its predecessor, Curie. It's predecessor, Babbage, and ADA. Get it ABCD, A, older, D, newer. ADA is much cheaper to use than DaVinci. And so, the trick for engineers today, is figure out how to basically make a cocktail out of using these different models. Now, that brings us to the Sixth Collaborative UX Pattern. It is the invisible craft. This means, you as a developer are doing some pretty strange things in the copilot stack to reduce costs. And in reality, you're not going to get a lot of credit for... Unless, you actually move the needle, so it costs less. But in doing so, you're trying to match quality to costs. This is very common in the world of Japanese craftspeople. Like if you've ever been to Japan, and looked at what gets made there, it's at a whole different level. It is engineering at its finest. And cleverness and everything we love about making things. But it's also the power of a brand narrative to understand the story behind everything is key. So we're going to ask questions about quality in the cost dimension, and get our copilot making skills to help us tell stories about it, so people appreciate what happened behind the scenes.