Dimension 3: Practices for quality
- Everyone loves quality, they want it to be a sure thing, high quality. But when it comes to this world, it's about rolling dice. That's about a non-deterministic thing, meaning that the AI can produce something that's not a hundred percent correct, but no worries because we're in an era where native code is really good, that's a deterministic. And at build 23, deputy CTO, Sam Schillace, my boss, who's always thinking about how these two come together, syntax, conventional coding and semantic, AI prompt coding, and how on the one hand you have precision, and the other hand you have power and it's this combination that is so extraordinary. For example, when we worked through speed, we found how, wow, this Collateral UX we're trying to create to change the perception of speed. We can use the semantic coding build that we have now to be able to give us ideas, hints for how to actually improve the user experience, collaboratively with AI. And for cost, we're also able to ask questions about how to optimize how models get used. The AI can generate actual code as our copilot to decrease costs. This intersection is magic. And when you consider how quality correlates to speed and cost with this new kind of AI, we want to remember that it's only because this stuff is evolving. It's expensive because it's new, it's slow because it's new. We're figuring it out right now, that's where Collateral UX is extremely important. It takes a new kind of developer who understands syntax, regular coding and semantic AI coding just like you. And they're also curious about how to use Collateral UX to change the perceptual angle and to use AI as their co-pilot to be able to make incredible products for people and discovering that they might have feelings about the product. They might have emotions, so next, let's get emotional.