Dimension 4: Practices for emotion
- So by now you're comfortable with the iron triangle, speed, cost, quality. These are three important things. But when it comes to AI, we have to add a fourth point to make it a tetrahedron. And that is emotion. Designers know how to manage the people's emotions, their users, their customers. It's not something that a developer really has to think about a lot. But an enlightened developer, especially in this AI era has to. Remember that we're in the era of what Herbert Simon, AI pioneer calls AI that is powered by scissors. One blade is the cognition blade, the foundation model. The other blade is context, prompts, et cetera. The two together produce this incredible copilot world. But don't forget what your parents told you. Don't rub with scissors. Kind of dangerous. Now, psychologist Paul Ekman in 1976 described six types of emotions. Fear, surprise, sadness, enjoyment, disgust, anger. You think about that, those are six general emotion categories and only 1/6th is about positive. So we spend most of our time kind of, "Ah," this expressions of your face. This is consistent with how we manage any kind of big event in our life, especially grief. This curve by Kübler-Ross describes what happens when you discover something has changed and you're like, "Oh, I don't like that change." And you kind of try to find your way back. Some people can't make it their way back. Some people are stuck in depression, sadly. Some people do actually barely make it back but they're never the same person. So emotion is about human beings experiencing change. And remember, 5/6th of the reactions are negative and this is consistent with designing any product. Professor Jean (indistinct) talks about how when you design a product, you're looking for the sweet spot of familiarity, high familiarity, and high novelty. It doesn't make any sense. Something that's familiar and novel at the same time? People like that quadrant because it's similar to the past. Familiar, but it's also novel. It's brand new. Pretty hard to create that. That kind of design happens very rarely. So consider how you're often going to probably upset your user in some way 'cause you're surprising them with something new. And AI is all brand new. So in that spirit, the seventh collaborative UX pattern is to not humanize AI. And the things it is saying to a user, if you make it sound too like, "Hey, best friend, got to trust it," you're going to get your pilot in trouble. Remember, AI is not a human. Don't humanize it. And if you don't, you'll be able to make sure that their emotional reaction when the copilot has let them down is mitigated. But let's examine how to work with emotions in writing copilots in code. Let's check it out.