Scope and prerequisites
- [Lecturer] What parts of the machine learning world are we covering in this course? Let's take a look at the activities in the machine learning ecosystem. In general, we can divide the activities into build activities and run activities. Build activities, focus on creating and testing the model, run activities, focus on deploying, executing, and monitoring the model. There are core machine learning activities in each of them. Feature engineering, model training, testing, and packaging are core ML activities on the build side Model deployment and inference, are the core activities on the run side. Knowledge and experience in core ML activities is a prerequisite for this course. Then surrounding these core activities is MLOps, which again, can be split as built and run. on the build side of MLOps we have various activities, like requirements management, data and training pipelines, data governance, experiment tracking, integrations, and model management. On the run side of MLOps, we have infrastructure management, deployment, serving, monitoring, and responsible AI. For this course, we will only focus on the build side Activities of MLOps. We will focus on the run side activities of MLOps, in another course, MLOps essentials, model deployment, and monitoring. For each activity in MLOps build, we will discuss the purpose, and context of that activity. We will discuss techniques, methods, and approaches used. We then will touch upon the tools available for performing this activity and also some of the best practices. Each of these activities have enough depth to warrant their own courses. We will be discussing only an overview of the activity and how they will fit into the overall MLOps context, for a deep dive into these specific activities, I recommend further reading. What are the prerequisites for this course? This course provides a high level overview of MLOps, and does not need deep technical hands on experience, but it is recommended to have prior understanding of machine learning operations, knowledge of core ML activities, and prior experience in building and running machine learning models is desired. This experience can be either in doing or managing ML. This course is suitable for multiple roles including, data scientists, ML engineers, managers, and product owners working in the ML domain. Finally, a word about the various tools and technologies discussed in this course. the MLOps tools world is a rapidly evolving ecosystem. This can change significantly in a short period of time. So it's recommended to evaluate the ecosystem periodically, especially when you get into actual implementation. So we are recommending tools based on the status at the time of this recording, but it can change rapidly. Also, there are MLOps tools from the big three platforms, AWS, GCP, and Azure. We are not going to discuss them specifically in this course, but do check them out, if you are already on any of these platforms