Training data for discriminator good fakes and real images
In this demo, we will train the discriminator as a classification model again, but we'll train with fake images that are much better than the fake images that we used earlier. I've called them good_fake_images. Here I am in the same Google Drive folder as before, My Drive, ai_workshop_dcgans, anime_classification. I have two sets of images here. I have the real images that we used in the earlier demo. You've already seen that, so I won't show you those again. And then I have some good_fake_images. Notice the new folder here called good_fake_images. Now if you click through to this good_fake_images folder, you will find that the fakes that have been generated here in this folder are much better than the previous fakes. As you can see, these are fakes from epoch 55 of training a GAN. The generator that created these was trained for a longer time and hence produced better fakes. And you will see this consistently across all of the images. The fakes are much better though in many cases, you can tell that these are still fakes, but there are so much better than the fakes that we saw in the earlier demo. Let me change the sorting here in drive so we'll see the generated images from a later epoch, epoch 70 of training. And these images are very realistic. You must admit that these are pretty good fakes. By using these good fakes, we are mimicking the process later on in GAN training, when the fakes generated by the generator progressively get better, and the discriminator finds it harder and harder to identify those fakes. Let's go back to our Colab notebook, where we'll train the discriminator again. The name of the notebook is TrainingDiscriminatorOnGood FakesAndRealImages. In order to speed things up, we'll train using a GPU. Make sure that your runtime type is set to T4 GPU. Go ahead and save this, and you'll find that the code that we use is very similar to the code that we set up in the previous demo. So I'm not going to walk you through every cell of code that I execute. The import statements, connecting to Colab, mounting Google Drive so that we can access our data, reading in the good fakes and the real images, transforming the data, splitting the data into training data and test data, and finally setting up the trainloader and testloader in order to access our train and test datasets. Before we move on to training the discriminator on this new data set, let's take a quick look at the real and fake images in the first batch. Once again, we'll use the display utility function and use make_grid to display the images in the form of a grid. Observe the labels that correspond to the images. You can see that the fakes are pretty good. For example, on the top left, the second from the top left, that's a fake image that looks pretty realistic to me. The third image from the top row, that's a fake image as well. The fourth image from the bottom row, that's also a fake image. Those are fakes that look pretty realistic. The discriminator is definitely going to have a harder time with these images.