Creating requirements
- [Instructor] What are the best practices in creating requirements for ML projects? Well-defined and verifiable requirements help machine learning projects progress with focus towards the end goal. The experimentation nature of model training may lead the team to deviate in various directions and lose track of the goal. Having well-defined requirements are a must for direction and validation. When we look at requirements, we don't look at machine learning in isolation. Rather, the requirements are for an ML application, our solution, and that contains both ML and non-ML components. The requirements together should help solve a business problem. What kinds of requirements are there? Let's start with the non-ML requirements. This covers the user experience for the solution, including graphical user interfaces and APIs. Next comes the functions of a solution, including the data collected, transformations, and reporting and analytics. Deployment requirements mandate how the solution is served to its customers. Scale requirements are required to set the maximum capacity the system can handle. Security requirements state how the data and the system are protected from unauthorized access and damage. Serviceability requirements state how the solution will build observability and how issues are handled. This set of requirements are common to general software projects and the best practices for these requirements also accrue to the ML projects. Next comes ML specific requirements. To begin, the requirements need to call out the specific problem the model is supposed to solve. For example, it can be predict customer propensity or recommend next action. Then comes performance goals which state the level of model performance desired. Operational goals specify requirements around accessing and using the model. Finally, cost requirements should lay out cost limits within which the final model should perform. Let's dive deeper into the ML requirements. It is recommended to state ML requirements as metrics goals. Specify the minimum metric value that the model should achieve and maintain. There are two types of metrics, model metrics and product or service metrics. They are further classified into performance or effectiveness metrics and operational or efficiency metrics. Sample metrics are provided in this table. For example, the requirement might state that the model should achieve 90% accuracy in training, should have a latency of one second or less 90% of the time. The product should maintain a conversion rate of 30% and allow a maximum of 500 concurrent sessions. When setting metrics goals, it is important to set them in such a way that they ensure successful operation of the model, as well as something that is reasonable and achievable. To begin with, the goals should be measurable and the requirements for instrumentation also needs to be captured. It should be the minimum required to achieve the desired results. It should be reasonable for the team to achieve within a limited amount of time. There is only so much accuracy that can be achieved given a training data set and technology. What do we base these requirements on? It can be based on the known performance of existing models in the same domain. It can be based on other technologies in the market. Customer expectations also play a key role on what is acceptable. It can be simply a best effort basis on what can be achieved in a set amount of time. Overall, creating reasonable and measurable requirements helps keep the project on track and measure its success.