Designing the ML workflow
- [Instructor] The workflow followed by the teams plays a critical role in ensuring that the principles of MLOps are instituted and managed effectively. Designing the workflow is a key activity that should be given new consideration at the beginning of the project. What is an ML Workflow? It is a sequence of processes and iterations that helps develop, manage and improve machine learning products and services. The specific workflow designed by the team would be based on the requirements, team structure, and deployment goals. However, there are some general best practices that need to be followed across the pipeline for effective MLOps. Let's discuss some of the general best practices. First, there should be traceability of everything. Whether it's data, models or processing steps. Knowing the lineage helps to measure progress, as well as troubleshoot issues. There should be repeatability of processing and the results that are produced. Focus on building data as code and model as code pipelines that helps rebuild things from scratch and produce the same results. Add automation wherever possible, as it helps repeatability and efficiency. Define access controls for various artifacts and actions needed on them. As the team grows, it is important to control how these artifacts are created, promoted, used, or discarded. The technology ecosystem for MLOps is rapidly evolving. Flexibility and plug-and-play design would help replacing parts of the pipeline without impacting the rest of the parts. Ownership of various parts of the pipeline should be well defined and managed. Finally, the pipeline should be able to autoscale as needed to accommodate growth in data, models and teams. One recommendation when creating pipelines, is to create decoupled sub pipelines. Inside the big ML pipeline are multiple sub pipelines for data engineering, model development, product development, and deployment and operations. Each of these should be able to evolve and work in a decoupled fashion, in order to enable parallel progression. Having tight coupling leads to a lot of blocked work if one part of the pipeline is stuck with a problem. Also, the ownership of these pipelines should be with individual subteams who work on the pipeline. And they should be able to work independently, but with collaboration with other subteams.