Assembling the team
- [Instructor] What are the best practices in putting a team together to execute an ML project? Building machine learning solutions requires a team with diverse skill sets across data engineering, data science, software engineering and operations. Assembling and heterogeneous team like this within the cost constraints of an organization is a challenge. What is the recommended team composition? There is a general myth that all team members in an ML project will be data scientists. - All an organization needs is to hire a couple of data scientists and they will do the job But that is not the case. Based on real life experience, the table below lists the percentage split between various roles in an ML project. Data scientists, who build models only constitute 20% of the team. Data engineers, who do the data processing and wrangling constitute 30%. Another 20% goes to the engineers building wrapper services and APIs around the model. This number may vary widely based on the non ML requirements in the project. ML engineers, who focus on productising the model, scaling, packaging and integrations constitute another 20%. Operations engineers form 10% of the team. How do we build this team? Based on the previous table, there should at least be 10 engineers in the team to achieve the right balance between the various roles. But then there are budgetary constraints. It's important to understand this and then decide on what skills to hire for. If the team is small, then look for engineers with multiple skills. If there is only a team of three, then these engineers need to wear multiple hats. Also, there is no point in hiring all the members in the beginning. Focus on data engineering and data science roles first and see if the model can be built to meet the requirements of the project. Then, add the other roles later. One significant gap experience by teams is the lack of understanding of the business domain and hence the business problem. Always include one or two engineers who have good experience in the business domain so they can relate the solution to the problem. There should be one or two engineers who serve as leads and focus on end-to-end integration across the pipeline. The skill sets needed for ML are hot in the market so do expect attrition. It's always good to cross-train and document to retain and spread knowledge.