Choosing tools and technologies
- [Instructor] One significant challenge today is choosing the right set of tools and technologies for doing MLOps. If we look at the technology landscape for MLOps today, it's nascent, growing, and ready to explode. There are several tools and technologies built for MLOps. Some of them are open source like MLflow. Some are commercial like Weights & Biases. And some are built on cloud platforms like AWS, GCP, and Azure. But the products are immature and evolving. It is expected that they will mature over time. Also, the tools are specific to a function rather than support end-to-end workflows. The tools are improving in this area by supporting additional life cycle activities and providing native integration. Future dominance is unclear and will emerge in a couple of years. Until then, we need to work with what is available and protect investments as needed. Here are some of my recommendations on choosing tools and technologies. First, decouple tools as much as possible from the main pipeline so they can be replaced anytime without much impact to the pipeline. Choose tools that suit the specific use case like classical ML, NLP, or computer vision. Always test the tools using trial or free versions before you buy licenses. If you're using third-party products to build code pipeline elements, do understand the product roadmap and enterprise support aspects. Look for extensibility and programmability, so you can customize the function if needed. In the rest of this course, we will outline a few tools that are popular for various MLOps functions, but that list can evolve rapidly. It's highly recommended that you do your research at the time of your project implementation and choose the best suited product.