Set up the virtual environment and run the notebook server
Before we explore our data and train our generative adversarial network using PyTorch, let's take a look at the environment within which we are operating. Here I am on the terminal window of my local machine. I'm going to create a new folder called ai_workshop_gans, and I'm going to cd into this folder. This folder is going to serve as the working directory for my project. So my Python Notebook, which is where I'll be writing the demo code, will be within this folder. We'll be downloading the dataset that we need to train our GAN, and that dataset will be downloaded into our working directory. We'll be writing our code and training our GAN model within a Python virtual environment. A virtual environment is a self-contained directory that contains its own Python interpreter and set of Python libraries and packages. The main reason to use a virtual environment is to isolate your Python project, and whatever dependencies it has from the system-wide Python installation. I already have a fairly new version of Python 3 installed on my local machine, and I use that to create a virtual environment called pytorch_venv. python -m venv and the name of your virtual environment. venv here refers to the venv module that is the recommended module to use to create your virtual environment, and pytorch_venv, I've already told you that's the name of our virtual environment. When you run this command, your virtual environment should have been created. And if you run an ls -l command in this current working directory, you will find that a directory called pytorch_venv will be available. Once you have a virtual environment, you need to activate it, and that's done on Mac and Linux machines by running the source command; source pytorch_venv/bin/activate will run the activation script and activate your virtual environment. Notice how my prompt changes to have the pytorch_venv in brackets. That's what indicates to me that I'm working within my virtual environment. If you are running on a Windows machine, this is how you'll activate your pytorch_venv virtual environment. You will access the activate.bat file under Scripts, and then you'll essentially run that. We'll be writing our neural network code using Jupyter Notebooks. And in order to run our Jupyter Notebook within our virtual environment, I'm going to install the ipykernel package. This Python package is a part of the Jupyter ecosystem, and it provides functionality for running Python code within Jupyter Notebooks and Jupyter interactive computing environments. We'll install the kernel specification for our virtual environment that we've created, and run our Notebook using that kernel, the kernel for our virtual environment. In order to see what environments are currently available for your Jupyter Notebooks, run jupyter kernelspec list and you can see I just have my regular Python environment. The kernelspec for my virtual environment hasn't been installed, and I'm going to do that right now using this command that you see here on screen. python -m ipykernel install will install a Python kernel for the current user, that's the --user flag, and name is equal to pytorch_venv, points to the pytorch_venv directory in our current working directory, and that will set up the kernel for the virtual environment. Once you run this command, if you run jupyter kernelspec list, once again, you'll find that the kernel for our virtual environment is now installed and available to use. Notice we have an additional kernel here, pytorch_venv. Now, when we run our Jupyter Notebook server, we'll be able to create notebooks that use this pytorch_venv kernel. Next, let's make sure that we have the latest version of pip. This is what we'll use to install the packages that we need. Well, I do have the latest version pip 23.2.1. With that done, let's go ahead and install all of the libraries that we are going to be using. In this course. You need to install the Torch Library, because that contains the PyTorch framework that we'll use to build and train our neural network. Torchvision is used in conjunction with PyTorch, and it provides a wide range of tools and utilities for working with image and video data. We'll be using the torchvision library to access the Fashion-MNIST dataset that we'll use to train our GAN. You're likely familiar with matplotlib. That's the plotting library that we'll use to visualize our images. The tqdm or Taqadum Library is a Python package that provides a fast and extensible progress bar for loops and iterable processes. This is what we'll use to visualize the training of our model. Go ahead and install all of these packages, and once the installation is complete, you have everything that you need to run our code. Next, you need to bring up the Jupyter Notebook server. Run Jupyter Notebook. Hopefully, you have Jupyter installed on your local machine and this will launch the server. Now, the notebook server's homepage should open up automatically on a browser window. If not, you can paste the URL in there. And notice here, when I click on the new dropdown, that there are two kernels available; the Python 3 kernel, that's the system-wide installation, and the kernel for the virtual environment, pytorch_venv. Select the kernel for the virtual environment, and let's give this notebook a meaningful name. This is the notebook that we'll use to train GANs using dense neural networks. In order to have more space on the screen for our code, I'll click on the View menu item and toggle the header and toggle the toolbar so that both of these are no longer visible. I'll also turn on line numbers so that I can use line numbers to point you to the portion of the code that we are interested in viewing. Now, let's make sure we are running using the pytorch_venv kernel. This is where you can change your kernel if you want to, but on the top right, notice pytorch_venv. We are all set here and ready to start writing code.