Introducing generative adversarial networks (GANs)
We know that generative models are incredibly powerful, and over the past year or so, generative models have been the most exciting development in the world of artificial intelligence. Here we'll study one of the earliest generative models, the generative adversarial network. These models are often referred to using their acronym GAN, and they belong to the class of generative models. Let's get a big picture understanding of how GANs work. The most powerful generative models are trained on a huge corpus of training data. The training data will contain a large number of observations. The larger the dataset, the better the resulting model. All the training instances will be of the type of entity that you want the model to be able to generate once training is complete. For example, if you want the model generate text, the input records will be all text. If the model should generate images, the input record should all be images. During the training phase of the generative model, the model learns the features and relationships that exist in the training data. The model understands the probability distribution of the real data. Once GAN training is complete, the model should be able to take in a random noise at its input and using this noise variable and whatever features it has learned from the training data, should be able to generate a new sample. And this new sample will be an instance that does not exist in the training dataset. It will be similar to instances in the training dataset, but it will not be exactly the same. Now, the output of machine learning models are probabilistic and not deterministic, and the same is true for a generative adversarial network. Generative models are probabilistic in nature rather than deterministic. Deterministic models apply the same set of computations on the input, and for the same output, will produce the same result no matter how many times you feed that input into the model. Probabilistic models that do not generate the same output each time must incorporate a random element which creates new entities, and that is the random noise that we feed into our GAN network. The field of generative AI has made many advances in the recent past, but the generative adversarial network is one of the original models in the realm of generative AI. The name adversarial in the name of the model comes from how the model is actually built. The GAN is made up of two neural networks that are competing with each other to get the better of the other. Both of those models are adversaries. The two adversarial components of the model include the generator and the discriminator. A generator is responsible for generating data, typically images, and the discriminator is responsible for figuring out what data is real and what data is fake. Which images are fake or real? Generative models have been around for a while. The original paper was published in the year 2014 by Ian J. Goodfellow and other authors. And if you want to reference the original paper, it's available on archive.org here in this link.