Feed forward networks and their limitations
- The use of attention is widely prevalent in language generation or language translation models and these tend to be recurrent neural networks. So, before you can understand attention based models, it's important that you understand how recurrent neural networks work. Recurrent neural networks allow you to work with sequential data and they're different from feed forward neural networks. Let's discuss feed forward neural networks and their limitations first. These are neural networks that you're likely familiar with. Dense neural networks or convolution neural networks tend to be feed forward networks. Here you have active learning units neurons arranged in layers. Input is fed into the first layer of the model and your output is available from the last layer of the model. The output of such a model is usually a prediction of some kind. What kind of prediction depends on what kind of model you are training. The prediction will be a class or a category if you're building a classification model. The prediction will be a continuous numeric value if you're building a regression model. This is referred to as a feed forward neural network because neurons in each layer pass their outputs forward towards the last layer. Feed forward neural networks can be arbitrarily complex. Every neuron in a layer may be connected to one or more neurons in the layer after it. That is a densely connected feed forward neural network. If a neuron is connected to just a few neurons in the next layer, that's an example of a sparsely connected network. Another feature of feed forward neural networks is that the entire input, that is the complete record that the neural network needs to make its prediction is available at a single time instance. Your data point is represented in some numeric form and the entire data point is fed in to get the prediction. Every input that you feed in is an independent record or data point from your training data; There are no inter relationships in your input data. Each input data point is independent of other inputs present in the trading data, and there is no inherent order or sequence to the inputs. In fact, it's often the case that you shuffle the inputs before feeding them into your feed forward network. Another characteristic of the feed forward network is that the output or the prediction is never fed back into the input. The output is just for a single data sample and it's just used as is. Feed forward networks are made up of feed forward neurons and here is how a neuron might be represented. Y, the output of the neuron is activation, applied to Wx+b. Here X is the vector of inputs that you feed into a neuron. The input X is weighed by a weights vector, W. The neuron has an activation function to learn non-linear relationships and then you get the output Y. A feed forward Neuron, however, does not have what it takes to deal with sequential input and output. Now, sequences are data points which have special time relationships. Certain data might be available earlier, certain data might be available later, so, different portions of the data may be available at different time instances. Another thing about sequences, the order of the data points in the sequence is important. If you change the order of data in a sequence, well, it's meaning might change completely; It might change the semantics of your data. Language is sequential data. For example, consider the sentence, this is not a good meal. I would say this is a negative sentence expressing negative sentiment, but what if I were to add a few more words to the sequence? This is not a good meal, it is a great meal. Now, this sentence now becomes positive; It has positive sentiment. Even this simple example makes it very clear that language is sequential because the order of the words matter. The order of the words change the meaning of the words. If you think of autocomplete models, autocomplete models use the order of words that have been seen so far to predict the next word in the sequence. Another example of sequential data is historical stock price data. Stock ticker data has implicit time relationships. So you have stock price at different instances of time. Trends over time is an important concept in stock price prediction. Trends might be rising trends, falling trends, anything. The order or sequence in which the stock prices are parsed is important. Another example of sequential data is video. Videos are just image frames viewed in a sequence. For example, if you have a car moving through a racetrack, you can use the position of the car at different time instances to predict the next position of that car. Now, feed forward networks cannot capture time relationships in data, which means feed forward networks are not good candidates for working with sequences.