Model registry
- [Instructor] Similar to how data is cataloged in feature stores and code is stored in code repositories, models do need their own registry to manage their life cycle. A model registry is a repository for storing and tracking machine learning models. It is a database that contains the model and metadata about the model. The database can be queried at any time to access the model and information about it. It is constantly updated with all status changes and associated audit trails. What information is captured in the model registry about the model? First, a serialized version of the model, like a pickle file is stored in the registry, Metadata about the model, including a unique model ID, version, and description of the model is stored. Hyper parameters used for the model is a key metadata to capture. Then there is model status based on which stage of the life cycle the model is currently in. There is also an audit trail of the model's history, including timestamp of state changes, test passes, test failures and deployment. There are also links to the input data version, the code or the notebook version that is used to build the model, and performance results from experiment tracking. Typically, an organization has a single central store for all the models that is shared by its ML teams. What are the benefits of model registry, specifically from the ML ops principle perspective? The registry provides traceability of the model, including its data and code lineage. This then helps in recreating the model if needed. The registry provides tracking of life cycle events for the model, thus helping in life cycle management. A central model registry serves as a communication and collaboration medium across multiple teams, and within the same team across different time intervals. The registry helps in automating the model creation and consumption activities. It also helps govern the data around the model, including access control and auditing.