Model life cycle management
- [Instructor] The machine learning process can be considered as the journey of a model. A model goes through a life cycle and managing its life cycle is central to MLOps. A well defined model life cycle with associated policies and processes helps in organizing, managing and scaling machine learning in an organization. When we talk about life cycle, we are talking about multiple model states and the state transitions that happen during the life of a model. Let's discuss a sample life cycle of a machine learning model or more specifically, a version of a model. This is a sample set of state and state transitions and you should build your own state transition scheme for your organization. First, we start with the model training activity, which produces a model. The model moves into the created state. Then, we perform model benchmarking. If the model passes benchmarking, it transitions to the past state. If it fails benchmarking, it moves to the discarded state. Next, the model is integrated with non ML code and goes through integration testing. If it passes integration testing, it moves to the upward state. Else, it moves to the archive state. We could have also discarded it. An approved model is then deployed in production and moved to the deployed state. When a new version of the model is ready, it's upgraded in production. Then, the current model is moved to the retired state. This again is a sample life cycle and you can customize it as needed for your organization. As the model goes through this life cycle, it is considered being promoted to newer states. How do we promote models? It's recommended to define the model life cycle and the promotion criteria during the requirement stage. Promotions should be based on metrics. This includes performance and operational metrics based on which model requirements are stated. For integration testing, it should have a past criteria that is around these metrics again and also other non ML criteria like the total number of issues found. Automate the promotion process in the pipeline based on thresholds on these metrics. It improves efficiency with less human intervention. Add human oversight as needed. During the initial stages, more oversight as needed to make sure that the pipeline and promotions are working as desired but as the pipeline matures, oversight can be reduced. Capture the decision and promotion history as part of the model registry for future reference.