Creating data labels
- [Instructor] Data labeling as an activity has gained a lot of traction lately, where a set of companies are offering this service while other companies are building software for this purpose. What is labeling? Data labeling or annotation is the process of adding contextual tags that are labels for training data that can then be used as targets for machine learning. For example, let's look at a review for a movie by John. A labeling task for this review would be about adding multiple contextual labels for this review. For example, a label called sentiment can be given a value positive. A rating label can be given a value 4.5. These labels can then be used as targets for building classification models, like, say, sentiment analysis or ratings prediction. Why is labeling gaining importance? Raw training data acquired from sources may not have prepopulated labels. Generally, structured data will contain labels, but unstructured data like text, media, and images may not have them. So to build models with unstructured data, labeling is needed. Available labels may be inaccurate and incomplete. Additional labeling may be needed for covering multiple use cases. For example, movie reviews can be used for building models for sentiment analysis and movie type recommendations. So if those labels are missing, they need to be manually added. How do we label data? There are various methods available, each with their own advantages and shortcomings. First, we can use experts in the domain to label data. This is particularly important in high specialization domains like medicine. Expert labeling can have high accuracy levels, but it's hard to get the experts to label a large corpus of data. The next option is crowdsourcing, where a large pool of volunteers are organized to look at the data and label them. While this method scales well at low costs, the labels themselves may be inaccurate and inconsistent based on the knowledge level and bias of the labeler. There are third-party professional annotators available today who will do labeling for a fee. This leads to professional labeling and high accuracy, but also high costs. Finally, another area of explosive growth in ML Ops is programmatic labeling. Here, a program or a model is created to label data instead of a human. This gives massive scale and adaptability at low cost, but then it takes time to build an accurate labeling program or model for a specific use case. For best results, it's recommended to combine multiple resources for both accuracy and scale. We can start with a base data set that is labeled by experts or professional annotators, then this label data set can be used to train volunteers or programs to label a much larger corpus.