AutoML
- [Instructor] AutoML is one of the key areas in ML-Labs that is seeing exponential growth. What is AutoML? It is the automation of all machine learning activities across the model life cycle to enable model development, analysis and decision making without human intervention. It deals with automating the job of data scientists and helps scale machine learning. What activities can be automated in AutoML? It first starts with feature engineering. AutoML can automatically analyze features to detect issues and inconsistencies and correct them. It can also be used to understand feature correlation to the target and select the best features. AutoML can help in model training by automatically selecting the right model algorithm. It can also perform hyperparameter tuning. Both model selection and hyperparameter tuning can be achieved by trying out multiple options and selecting the one with the best results. It can also do ensemble training by using multiple models to choose the best outcomes. Next comes deployment. AutoML pipelines can analyze model training and test results to decide if the model is ready for promotion to production. It can also detect drift and bias in models and decide to retrain and redeploy these models. One area where AutoML is popular is in creating custom models by use case. Data scientists may hand create a base model and then that model can be customized based on specific customers or use cases. This helps create and manage hundreds of models in a software as a service application without additional human work. Let's now look at some of the key benefits and shortcomings of AutoML. Looking at the benefits, AutoML increases the efficiency of ML pipelines with automated retraining and incremental training without human intervention. This also increases the speed of training and deployment. AutoML may produce better results since it can do a grid search for hyperparameters and model types. Using AutoML does not need trained data scientists and other users should be able to set up and customize them. Creating custom models by each customer or use case at scale is another key benefit of AutoML. In terms of shortcomings, any form of automation creates errors, if not fully validated. New use cases in terms of training data or feature target relationships may create issues with models. Model bias may go untracked if there are no special automated checks for these. Processing capacity might be an issue, especially if training happens for multiple rounds using grid search. Finally, Explainable AI may become worse as AutoML may take modeling decisions that are not fully understood by the team. What are some of the best practices for AutoML? Automation is good for repeatable tasks. Achieve manual repeatability of the task before automating it. This includes the steps needed, exceptions handled and decisions taken during the task. Choose the right tools and technologies for AutoML. This helps manage AutoML pipelines efficiently. We will list a few tools in the next video. Use experiment tracking along with AutoML to track all experiments and results. Create automated tests to verify the sanity of tests using AutoML. Track the performance of the model closely in production to see if AutoML is resulting in degradation of performance. Review the results of AutoML from experiment tracking, test results and production performance. Take care of issues and keep improving the AutoML pipeline.