AI in social media
AI in social media can be grouped into three key areas. Algorithmic amplification, deep fakes, and content moderation. These are the primary areas where AI is contributing to problems on the internet. Let's talk about the first objective of AI in social media, algorithmic amplification. The goals of social media started out innocently by using pattern recognition to identify and show people content they like in order to promote engagement, as indicated by increased posting, liking, and sharing. Maximizing engagement makes sense from the perspective of the company whose objective is maximizing profit through targeted ads. To this end, many social platforms engage attention engineers to design algorithms and interfaces that keep people coming back to the site and interacting with it for longer periods of time. The CEO of Netflix, a platform known for inducing binge watching, went so far as to say that sleep is his competition. Early research on social media showed that this pursuit of revenue contributes to filter bubbles and echo chambers, which limit exposure to diverse perspectives and reinforce a shared narrative. Algorithms determine the news and information that users see, and research shows that divisive and partisan content results in more likes, comments, and shares, unfortunately. As a result, the more time someone spends on Facebook, the more polarized their online news consumption becomes, according to University of Virginia researchers. A related use of AI in social media is for content moderation. Most of the content in social media is user-generated, and there is an astounding amount of new content uploaded every minute. More than 700,000 Facebook posts, 350,000 tweets, 500,000 Snapchat photos, 500 hours of video on TikTok, and another 500 hours of video are uploaded to YouTube every minute. Human moderation cannot keep up with this rate of content production, and AI can't keep up either. Even if an algorithm is 90% accurate, it would still make millions of mistakes a day. You would need a one-in-a-billion error rate, which is impractical to achieve. Even worse, our adversaries and their tactics are constantly changing, outmaneuvering, and escalating. However, AI can help by identifying the sources producing the greatest volume of problems and shutting them down. Typically, a small number of accounts are the source of a majority of the disinformation. But this is a technically challenging problem, and social media companies lack incentives to solve it. Platforms remain mostly unregulated and without liability for misinformation, hate speech, and other harmful content they help to distribute. Which is why more accountability is needed. More on that in a minute. Another concern for the use of AI in social media is synthetic media or deepfakes. This is when AI is used to alter and create convincing images, audio, and video that appear are real but are fake, such as swapping a different face into a video. Open-sourcing access to this technology without built-in safeguards has predictably led to harmful uses that disproportionately affect women. 96% of deepfakes were non-consensual, intimate deepfakes, and of those, 99% of the victims were women, according to the Center for International Governance Innovation. AI is now also being deployed to detect deepfakes by reverse engineering to spot alterations. But we need safety first. As whistleblower Francis Haugen argued, Facebook needs to be subject to the same kind of government regulation that covers big tobacco, automobiles, and opioids as public safety concerns. While the US lags in these policies, the European Union is stepping up so Alphabet, Facebook, Twitter and other tech companies will have to take measures to counter deepfakes and fake accounts on their platforms or risk hefty fines under an updated European Union Code of Practice. It's clear that careful innovation and monitoring are needed as AI technology matures, and the first step is to ensure safety by design. Safety should not be an afterthought. Companies can help mitigate harms by having strong red teams, which try to find edge cases and break the systems. An approach Twitter used was bias bounties to provide incentives for others to detect bias problems in their platform. After the public reported racist photocropping, Twitter also hired their critics to help prevent future problems. Some companies use third-party audits, which are promising but have limitations. With just five tech companies dominating the social media space, many argue that we need better antitrust action to address monopolies in the tech sector that are potentially preventing new revenue models and approaches that support pro-social features. There's a lot of work to be done to ensure responsible usage of AI in social media. As awareness of the impacts of social media has grown, new technology and policy approaches are being developed to prevent and address harms and maximize benefits.