Your reinforcement learning journey
- [Khaulat] Congratulations, and thank you for making it to the end of this course. Now that you understand reinforcement learning, I believe let's do a quick test. Pause this video and take 30 seconds to answer the question, what is reinforcement learning, in the question and answer section. I believe you did that. So here's my own answer. Reinforcement learning is a form of machine learning, or basically one of the ways machines learn that involves interaction with the environment and learning from their own actions, as opposed to learning from history or previously recorded datasets. If you're a product manager, a machine learning developer, or a researcher, you already know what you want to do with your knowledge from this course. However, if you're new to the field of artificial intelligence, I have some suggestions for you. First, learn about the other machine learning techniques for supervised and unsupervised learning, learn more about neural networks and deep neural networks, understand what deep learning is before you dive into deep reinforcement learning. There happens to be some great resources on LinkedIn Learning, so you don't have to go far. I also have some projects I've personally worked on with reinforcement learning at khaulat.github.io. If you have any questions during your learning journey, you can always ask in the question and answer section. Myself or someone else will be able to help you out. You're also welcome to connect with me on LinkedIn. Happy learning.