Output from an untrained generator and discriminator
Now that we have our generator and discriminator set up, let's take a look at what a sample output from each of these modules looks like. Now z here is the random noise variable that I initialize to feed into the generator network. Observe that I've used a batch size of 64 for the latent noise variable. So we'll have 64 noise variables, each having a dimensionality of 100 that we'll use to generate 64 images. We then pass z in to our untrained generator model, and this will generate a batch of 64 images. Now remember that these 64 images are unlikely to be very good. In fact, they'll be terrible because the generator has not been trained at all. So here is what the tensor of 64 images looks like. Let's take a look at the shape of the generated output. And you can get this by invoking the .shape member variable. There are 64 images in this batch. That's the first dimension. Each image is a multi-channel, three-channel, 64 x 64 image. Let's view one of these generated images to see what they look like. So I'm going to look at the very first image at index 0. I have to do a little bit of permutation to display that image in matplotlib. You already know the details of that. You can see that the generated image is a color image, but it's completely random. It's a pretty bad fake. Using similar code, let's take a look at the grid of generated images from this batch of 64. Once again, there's a bit of normalization and dimension swapping that you have to perform to display this in matplotlib. And here is what this batch of images from the untrained generator looks like. If the untrained generator produces pretty bad images, the discriminator also makes pretty bad predictions. I'll now get the predictions from the discriminator for this batch of generated images. I'll just display the first 10 predictions here. Remember, the predictions are in the form of probability scores. For an untrained discriminator, all of the prediction probabilities that you see here are close to 0.5. The discriminator is just guessing at random at this point.