Setting up an ethics board
- [Instructor] Having built the lens of governance, we now understand that as much as we all are fractional contributors to what Gen A models are made of, we also play a crucial role in ensuring governance. The way I see it, governance is multi-layered. It starts with a developer who has their own governance role to play. That developer is a part of a team that brings many additional pairs of eyes with their own set of governance. This team comes together to create a product with ethics embedded in design. The organization also has its governance measures and adheres to what the law dictates. This is just a glimpse of multiple layers or various places where ethics and governance bloom. One such layer is that of the ethics board. Before I explain what this board offers, let us take a moment to consider a scenario where no such board exists. Corporate decision makers are often perceived to prioritize business more than people. In simpler terms, the absence of something like an AI ethics board is thought to lead to a shift in AI's focus from human-centric to profit centric. I can't entirely dismiss that line of thought. Let us see where the ethics board fits in this governance value chain. The ethics board draws its values and vision from the organization it represents, yet it has the responsibility to ensure alignment between the business offerings and those values. It might sound like parroting what we discussed earlier in the course, but any AI powered product must be run through an ethics board at the idea or proposal phase. No organization desires to go through the rigor of building a high quality efficient AI product only to know it is not ethically compliant in the end. In such cases, revisions may be necessary, or in the worst scenario, the entire project may need to be scrapped. Involving the board through key milestones is of great value here. They discern the risk profile of AI projects from ideation phase and continue refining it until there is a reasonable consensus on the acceptable level of reservable risk. But how are such boards formed? Like most other things in life, diversifications benefits hold true here as well. A well-equipped cross-functional team comprising members from compliance, legal, engineering, product, and data science can enable the right use of this technology. But there is more, which gives us a good segue to introduce the emerging profiles following the rise of AI governance, especially AI ethicist, Chief AI ethics officers, AI audit officers, AI ethics and compliance officer, and ethical AI architects. While each role brings its specialty and expertise, the underlying responsibility is essentially the same. That is to spot complex ethical issues and objectively assess the system through the governance lens. As much as we like to bank on the board, several factors contribute to its ineffectiveness. One of the prime reasons undermining the purpose of the board is its perception as a mere campaign agenda for marketing purposes. This concern links with the broader need for organizational cultural change as discussed earlier. Organizations must move beyond superficial commitments and ensure that these committees are integral to the decision making process. Adding to the challenge, despite the expectation for boards to work independently of business executives, they end up receiving pressure to approve of the initiatives, regardless of the risk those projects may pose. Addressing these challenges, the board needs protection first to ensure AI systems are safe. But how? Robust policies should be in place to insulate the committee from external pressures, allowing them to make impartial assessments of AI initiatives. Great, we have now set up an effective ethics board. It's time to identify potential sources of risk and ways to mitigate them. Let's keep governing.