Identify and mitigate AI risks
- [Instructor] Okay, we have formed the board to look after the risk, but that responsibility is also expected from an AI developer. You must be thinking, where am I heading? Well, we have reached the root of it. Let us call it the atomic level, where all that we have discussed so far comes down to identifying risk and mitigating them. In fact, we'll proactively account for those risk from the perspective of the AI developer. So let us get straight to it and focus on critical risk, bias and privacy. Starting with bias, let us take an example of a bank using ML models to issue credit loans. The model works well in classifying good versus bad credit risk until one fine day. An individual from a lower income group applies for a credit loan only to get rejected. What could be the reason? It is because the bank had not seen loan applicants from this group to date. So there were no records representing such applicants, and as the ML model was not trained on such diverse data. Now, from my perspective, lower income groups are, in fact, in most need of receiving loan funds to either start a new business, invest in an existing one, or to utilize them to improve their life meaningfully. Indeed, for a bank, there is a risk involved, but to assess the risk question, profiles like these need to make their way to the training data first. Otherwise, the model will be biased to classify them as high risk and deny credit. And that is the gap that services if we have ethically designed systems. When a diverse group assesses the solution, it can immediately point out who is missing from this data. In this case, the population for whom it is life changing to get the funds isn't present in bank records, maybe because they needed digital presence, bank accounts, et cetera. So to mitigate this bias, it requires proactive efforts to enrich and enhance the training data by bringing in additional data, covering the attributes of lower income groups to ensure their representation, which can then be reasonably improved with the help of techniques like oversampling or synthetic data creation. However, it is crucial to know that there is a gap. Groups would be at a disadvantage if the model shows bias. We have gotten past the data misrepresentation and made the correct data available, but did you notice one thing? AI is all about data. See how many times you have mentioned data in the last few minutes. Data is the engine driving the learning process of such advanced models, and that brings us to our second risk, privacy. The data can include personal user information and sensitive details, highlighting users' preferences, habits, choices, and demographics. Misuse of such user data is equivalent to breaching their trust and draws penalties on organizations responsible for such violations. But there are other data implications too. Say if a data breach lands sensitive user details in the hands of bad actors, it is a high severity incident. It demands security measures and standards to maintain data integrity. Here is what I recommend. First, ask for explicit user consent, which must not be hidden under several nested links, making it challenging for a non-advanced digital user to understand what they're getting into. Next, whenever there is a change in how data is handled, stored, managed, or utilized, give an explicit call out to the user to withdraw or update their intent timely. And finally, ethics by design needs to go hand in hand with cyber-secure systems by design. Organizations must have robust measures in place to prevent data theft, breaches, and any kind of wrongdoing on user data. Now, I certainly don't want to leave you with the impression that bias and privacy are the only risk that you must be watchful of. Instead, the risk manifest in various stages of the model development lifecycle. Now that you've developed the lens of identifying and proactively managing risk, I'm sharing this infographic highlighting the potential risk associated with AI. Please refer to it in your team discussions about whether you've witnessed them at work. If so, how have you handled them? I have done such brainstorming exercises with my colleagues and found them insightful and actionable.