Driving organizational governance
- [Instructor] We briefly discussed different layers of governance. Let's formalize it now. Governance starts from an individual developer's lens of governing what is right. Self-regulation in its purest form. The developer engages in discussion with peers and leverages teams diverse technical expertise. As the team makes progress, the ethics board that initially reviewed the idea and give a green signal to the project remains an active and essential participant. Their continuous involvement throughout the development lifecycle involves crucial milestones, providing ongoing assessments and feedback. At any time if there are unresolved issues or deviations from how the project initially started, business executives are the key stakeholders that need to be informed. They play a significant role in deciding the way forward, along with the team. Ensuring decisions align with both the organizational goals and ethical considerations. All this was done ensuring all checks and balances are in place to uphold ethical, legal, and responsible practices while being compliant with industry and sector regulations. Lastly, independent audits of AI systems ensure compliance. The very thing for which the whole team works. These independent audits help assess and validate whether the existing governance model is sufficient and effective. You should know though that there is no ascertained order for layering governance. In fact, mostly it goes side by side. Different stakeholders are sought for their expert opinions at different times. Even at the developer step, they may not possess a wealth of knowledge about trustworthy AI already. They are good in technical skills like coding and building AI models, and while building the solution, they learn the guidelines, principles, and best practices. So it is happening alongside the solution that is being developed. But the onus lies with the organization to sensitize them. Throughout this course we've been discussing the benefits of governance. So it is a clear motivation for organizations to spend time and budget educating their teams about governing AI. But what about the developers? Why would they spend additional effort in first learning and then ensuring governance in action? Beyond the conventional rewards based system or connecting the responsibilities with the OKRs, the typical business approach, I believe by instilling the right governance principles, the teams are inherently motivated. Awareness brings accountability. Everyone has a shared accountability to build AI systems. Recalling instances where AI did not provide equal opportunities to specific groups or did harm to society builds the ownership muscle, as I call it. So what can organizations do to enable their teams through governance? They can build systems and processes into their work. Yes, these are precisely the actions that are core to building governance. It involves building systems and processes such as compliance workflows, documentation that include an inventory stock of all algorithms. What, why, and how? The right level of detail that proves helpful for auditing compliance by higher ups. Even the definition of risk and how to quantify it. What if there is a gap? Does the team know how to bridge such a gap? What is the acceptable threshold of residual risk? How to audit and perform impact assessment of the AI risk? Having explored the measures to steer AI governance in the right direction, let us now shift our focus to what lies ahead, to embrace the change at our workplace.