Tuning exercise: Problem statement
- Having now discussed various tuning options available for deep learning networks, let's put them into practice to tune a neural network. I would again like to caution that the results would vary based on the use case being executed, and consistency of results across multiple trends would be impacted by the amount of training data. In this course, we use smaller datasets for demonstration purposes. This is an exercise that the students are encouraged to attempt on their own, and then come back to the following videos to look at solutions. There are multiple ways to solve the problem, and what is presented here, is one such example. This is the same exercise that was provided in the deep planning getting started course, and we will continue to improve the basic model we built in that course. The use case to solve relates to root cause analysis of problems found in our data center. We have a data center that runs a number of software services. Service failures do happen from time to time, and the data center team needs to look to quickly troubleshoot and identify the root cause. The team wants to build a model that can predict root causes reported by customers based on telemetric, regenerated, and errors noticed. They already have a system monitoring tool that tracks CPU, memory, and application latency characteristics of their servers. In addition, they also track errors reported by their applications. Can we use this information to predict root causes of these issues? This is the same problem we discussed in the Deep Learning, Getting Started Course. The problem statement is as follows, using data about CPU load, memory load, network delays, and four types of errors observed, build a deep learning model to predict the root cause of the error, then optimize the model performance using various techniques described in the course. A dataset is available that has one record for each of the incident, indicating if any of the load issues or errors were noticed when the problems happen. This is the CSV file with the data available, the file called root cause analysis.CSV available in the exercises folder. Each record in the file has a unique identifier called ID that represents the Incident. There are seven feature variables, namely, CPU load, memory load, delay, Error_1000, Error 1001, Error_1002 and Error_1003. Each of them is a bullion value of one or zero. The target variable is root cause. It has three possible values, memory leak, network delay, and database issue. We need to build a model to predict the root cause based on the other values provider. For the optimization, the following hyper-parameters need to be optimized. First, determine the ideal number of layers needed for the model, then determine the ideal number of nodes for each layer, using the number of layers determined before. Next, tune the backpropagation process. First select the best optimizer for the problem, then, using the optimizer selected, find the best learning rate for the problem. Please use batch normalization for this purpose, then reduce overfitting, by identifying the best regularization algorithm for the problem. Identify the best dropout rate while using the regularization that you have chosen. Finally assemble all the hyper-parameters selections based on the individual experiments, and create a consolidated model with all of them. Compare its performance against the default settings to see if overall improvement is obtained. While the exercise requires only a few experiments, feel free to experiment with more parameters, and combinations of them and see how the model performs. Best of luck for the exercise.