Setting up Google Colab cloud-hosted notebooks
In this movie, we'll set up the environment that we'll be using to run the demos of this course. Now, all of the neural network training that we're going to be doing, we'll do on Google Colab. So head over to colab..research.google.com. Now, if you've never worked with Google Colab before, let me give you a quick overview of what it is. Google Colab is short for Google Co-laboratory. It's a free, cloud-based platform provided by Google that allows users to run and execute Python code in a web-based interactive environment. Colab is based on Jupyter Notebooks, which are essentially interactive documents that combine code, text, and visualizations. You've likely used Jupyter Notebooks on your local machine. Well, now you can use it on the cloud using Colab. However, there are so many cloud-based notebooks out there. Why is Colab special? Well, Colab provides free access to GPUs, that is, graphics processing units and TPUs, tensor processing units, which are hardware accelerators used for training deep learning models. Access to these GPUs and TPUs are absolutely free on Colab, so long as you're within a certain limit, and we'll definitely not be exceeding those limits when we are doing the demos of this course. Because we are going to be training deep convolutional generative adversarial networks that train on multi-channel or color images, well, we could do with a GPU. This code is going to run really slowly on our local machine. Hence we are using Colab. In order to use GPUs in Colab, you'll need to sign in and any Google account will do. If you have a Gmail account, you can use that to sign in, or if you have a Google account from your organization, you can use that to sign in as well. I'm signing in with my organization's Google account. And here I am within Colab. Now let's create a new notebook within which we'll write our code. Now you work with Colab Notebooks, just like you would work with Jupyter Notebooks. Before we start coding, let's give this notebook a meaningful name. I've called it ConvolutionalFilters because that's what we're going to explore in the first demo. At this point, you have a conceptual understanding of how convolutional layers and pooling layers work. Now you'll get some hands-on experience with how these layers function. Now, before we get there, let's talk about the runtime that we'll use to execute our code. Under runtime, you can change the runtime type to pick what kernel you want to use to run your code. We'll be writing code in Python 3, so that's the kernel that I have selected. Now in addition to the kernel, this is where you select what kind of hardware you want to run your code on. In this first demo, we won't be doing anything computationally extensive, so it's fine for us to use the CPU accelerator. But later on when we train our GAN, we'll need a GPU. We'll see that when we get to it, but for now, go ahead, pick the CPU and save the changes. The next thing I'm going to do is show you how you can access folders on the machine where your cloud notebook is hosted. Click on the little folder icon to the left of your screen, and this will show you the folders that you have access to in your runtime environment. Now the cool thing is, you can also upload data to these folders. Right-click, select the upload option. This will bring up a browser window on your local machine. Select the car.jpeg file that is available along with the resources of this course, and go ahead and open and upload this image to your cloud-hosted notebook. Anything that you upload to your runtime environment can be accessed by code in your notebook. And that's why I've performed this upload.