What causes drift?
- [Instructor] Why does drift occur after a model has been deployed in production? Let's begin with concept drift. What causes concept drift in real scenarios? There are multiple reasons. There could be changes in the ecosystem that may trigger changes in behavior of the subjects. For example, a new marketing campaign with deep discounts may increase conversion rates. A new demographic may start buying more. There could be cyclic and seasonal variations that are not covered in the training data. For example, during the school reopening season, the sale of school supplies will go up. If a model predicting school supplies did not consider this seasonal variation, it'll be inaccurate during the season. Another reason is that the training data is not from the same population as production data. This includes data distribution and frequency. In such cases, drift may not be immediately noticed after deployment. What causes feature drift? There could be a change here in the population mix of entities. Some demographics may be more active in a given time period. Some products may be sold more than expected. For example, during COVID, sale of hand sanitizers increased multi-fold. There can be some changes in application logic in upstream data creators and processors that may change the distribution. Some new classes or categories may be introduced, which the model may not be aware of. There can be errors in data generation and processing. That is introducing skewed or random values into the data stream. Equipment errors, data pipeline errors, and missing data errors can all cause deviation in feature data.