Challenge: Finish the perceptron
(upbeat music) - Ready for your first challenge? Let's finish up the Perceptron class. First, in order to test the class, we'll need to be able to set the weights of specific values. So we need a method for that, and you can find it in line 21. Just replace the pass statement in line 23, and also, remember we'll use a sigmoid as the activation function. So that's the second thing you'll have to write, starting at line 25. Again, do this by replacing the pass statement in line 27. So once again, your task is to write two class methods. The sigmoid activation function, and a separate method to write values to the weights. For the argument, receive a regular Python list of floating point numbers. You may or may not validate that the length of this list matches the number of inputs in the neuron, including the bias. This is not crucial because we'll use it for simple tests. This should take you about 15 minutes. When you are done, let me show you my solution in the next video.


Solution: Finish the perceptron
(pleasant electronic music) - [Eduardo] Here we have my solution. Both methods are one-liners. First, let's look at the set_weights method starting at line 19. As you can see in line 21, I'm simply assigning the NumPy array version of the argument to the class's weights. Now let's see the sigmoid methods starting at line 23. As you can see, the sigmoid is simply written as the definition we saw earlier, and I used the NumPy exponential function for this. That's it, now we are ready to test our neuron, but first, let's give some meaning to our test.