Challenge: Logic gates with perceptrons
(quirky music) - [Instructor] Ready for your next challenge. Your task is to make your perception behave as a 2 input OR Gate. Here's the truth table for the OR Gate, and this is what the classification problem looks like. So to be clear, what you need to do is come up with a combination of weight that will make the perception behave as an OR Gate. It may help to fill out the Z column of this table first. Remember, you want a negative sum whenever you want the output to be 0, and a positive sum for 1. Go ahead and tweak the code to test your new OR Gate. This shouldn't take you more than 15 minutes, especially because you may use the provided code which is a modification of the AND Gate code you just saw. When you're done, watch the next video for my solution and comments.


Solution: Logic gates with perceptrons
(upbeat music) - [Instructor] Here we have my solution in line 30. The values I came up with, are 15 for both inputs and -10 for the bias. This way, any input value of one will make the weighted sum positive. Let's see it working. Looking at the terminal at the bottom, we can see the OR behavior. That is, for an input of zero zero, we get an output value very close to zero. The rest of the input combinations yield an output greater than 0.99. If you like this exercise, you may want to create the NAND and the NOR gate next. Great! So our perceptron can operate as we ask with the weights we write into it. Now we are ready to teach a behavior to our perception.