Adding friction: The new math
- So if you've been noticing something a little funny, it's the fact that UX is usually about reducing friction, but all the UX patterns for Collaborative UX add friction. For example, pattern one is about adding AI notices to force the human pilot to think critically. Cloud UX pattern two is about suggesting prompts because you want the pilot to be able to choose things that the AI is better at doing. Cloud UX pattern three is now giving citations, making the pilot work and learn more. Cloud UX pattern four is about status updates. It's about making sure there's more information in the pilot's view to be able to be aware of what's happening. That's friction. Cloud UX pattern five is providing citations, making the pilot read more and learn more, even more friction. Pattern six is different, however. It's what engineers are really good at doing, removing friction. That one you get the old way. Pattern seven though, is about not humanizing AI, which is the ultimate form of friction, because you're managing people's emotions. You're dispelling the myth that this is magic, and that's an important part of being responsible in this era of AI. So we have the tetrahedron to guide us in the copilot stack, speed, cost, quality, emotion. And remember the emotion one, it's hard as a developer to remember the emotion one. A lot of this stuff in the developer world understand that, ensures that you're more likely to do something well on behalf of all the pilots out there looking for awesome copilots.