Demystifying governance
- [Instructor] To bring effective AI governance into action, let us first develop a shared understanding on what AI governance is. The goal of AI governance is to promote responsible and ethical practices throughout the lifecycle of an AI system. It involves making decisions for effective development, deployment, and monitoring of AI systems to ensure they are performing as intended. You must have often heard terms such as regulations, laws, guidelines, policies, norms, and ethical practices, and wondered how they are related. Well, it is not just you, this is one of the most common questions I get too, so let's put them into perspective. To start with, these related terms cover the whole spectrum, including voluntary guidelines and norms, best practices, policies, soft laws, and regulations. Do they sound overwhelming? I understand, it still does to me. Hence, when starting out, I suggest everyone to think beyond their broad definitions simply because when we go after defining each of them, it would shift our focus to understanding their legal intricacies, which in itself is quite complex and evolving as we speak. Instead, think of these related terms as the core of AI governance, which is the overarching framework, including such steps in the direction of reaching a goal and is the focus of this course. The AI Act by the European Union, which is claimed to be the first comprehensive approach to regulate AI, makes a good case for us to learn effective AI governance in action. It started as a general approach policy, and served as a blueprint outlining the fundamental principles to building trustworthy AI. So, what does the policy do? In general, policies work at the root level and do not have the force of law. As a result, they undergo a formal procedure similar to the initial proposal of the AI Act by the European Commission in April 2021, which is on track to soon become law after a rigorous legislative journey. It is expected to gain legal enforcement by 2026, which is the timeline by which the organizations must become compliant. These legal structures are binding in nature to ensure compliance, violation of which draws penalties. Preparing for effective governance requires specific details, including but not limited to defining use cases, providing disclosure of the underlying training data, identifying risk mitigation measures, for that matter even defining risk and where it is emerging from. Is it the risk from the training data or does it include the potential risk arising from lack of safeguards? What are the consequences, such as the penalties of non-compliance of the AI Act going up to 40 million euros or 7% global turnover. And who needs to comply? For example, whether the AI Act is applicable to AI providers located in the EU or covers those outside the EU too. Such specific requirements and formal guidelines are where regulations bring clarity. Supplementing the law with a detailed practical implementation approach. Extending the specifics discussed thus far, what are your thoughts on evaluating your AI systems? Have you come across the need for common standards that define bias identification and evaluation? There could be various ways a system could be audited for compliance. What are some of the key areas you look for while building models today? What would an ideal governance process look like? What about documentation on details related to models? And finally, we've been talking about transparency and accountability. How do you embed such ethical practices by design? You may already be practicing it, but even if you have not thought about these processes yet, consider these initial questions as a stepping stone to help you identify what it takes to govern complex AI systems. We will cover such ethical design thinking in upcoming videos. The overall legal framework is very broad and includes rules and procedures for specific industries to ensure compliance and effective governance. In the end, I would like to emphasize the legal intricacies that require vast understanding of the matter in hand. Hence, it is advised to consult legal counsel or subject matter experts to ensure full compliance. With that disclaimer, let us discuss the role of governance in promoting business growth with the help of two practical examples.