Need for increasing governance
- [Instructor] Great, so we understand the rate at which the risks have exacerbated as AI systems have become more sophisticated over time. We also learned that increasing risks call for stricter measures that form the basis for governance. But all of it looks good in theory, is the typical concern when explaining the governance or AI ethics. Let us address such concerns today and look at some practical generative AI applications and their implications, highlighting the need for additional steps to govern them. We are going to talk about these applications in four aspects, where we will set the context, list the measures that organizations can take, figure out how it impacts users, and how it impacts the business. The first case here is about AI-generated interactions. Let us first understand the context. While generative AI models are an indispensable tool for various tasks, such as content summarization and report generation, their remarkable generative capabilities have made it challenging for users to discern the authenticity of the information they produce. Here is the main governance measure in place. The users should be notified when interacting with AI or presented with AI content so they can accordingly exercise the necessary caution and make informed decisions. Now, let us see how such measures impact the user. Being aware of AI generated content helps them consider its limitations, that it might be missing human insight, intuition, and context, and allows them to assess the content differently. Such awareness is crucial, especially in critical domains like medicine and finance that involve high stakes and complex decision-making. Consider how your response would change if you were recommended stock investments by a human expert versus an AI tool, or for that matter, a medical diagnosis. Talking about the impact of governance on business, there is no denying that happy customers are core to a flourishing business. So, next, we will assess how businesses eventually benefit by adopting governance. These measures go a long way in building trust with users and show up in brand loyalty. It also demonstrates organizations' emphasis on promoting transparent and responsible AI practices. Such values build a good reputation for ethical AI use, which can be a powerful asset and give a competitive edge, especially when ethics are becoming a pressing necessity. Let us reinforce the benefits of governance with the second case, chatbots. The excellent conversational abilities of generative AI models make them a compelling case for building chatbots. In addition to generating contextually-relevant and natural-sounding responses, their ability to communicate in multiple languages helps increase global business reach. However, when implemented without proper governance, they could provide incorrect, biased, or offensive information, potentially harming users and businesses. Thus, creating mechanisms to audit and monitor such AI systems is crucial, filtering any inappropriate response. Further, soliciting user feedback can also help check the chatbots' performance and fine-tune them as needed to address their concerns. Inform the user consent about data collection and utilization protocols provides them with a safe channel to express their intent and ask detailed questions freely. This in turn leads to effective query resolution and a positive customer experience. Such measures talk volumes about businesses' focus on compliant ethical measures, including data security and privacy, which in turn builds credibility, a valuable asset for business differentiation. These examples illustrate how AI governance lays down the foundation for trustworthy practices. It does not hinder innovation, but promotes it. You are not yet obligated to do it legally today, but proactively addressing the current concerns in your AI systems paves the way for a smooth transition when future laws are introduced to address these issues. I have often received responses that governance does not let us move fast, and here is what I suggest. Adopting governance measures prevents potential legal implications and solidifies ethical standing in the market. It creates a safe brand to adopt and endorse, opening the doors for industry-wide collaboration, thereby fostering innovation. In short, governance is the solution to harness the upside of generative AI while mitigating its potential risk effectively. It starts with creating awareness and transparency, which together form the linchpin of the generative AI revolution. Awareness of not just the capabilities, but also the potential risk and transparency about the entire lifecycle, including, but not limited to, data usage, model development, and AI generated content. Okay, now that we have a good grasp of the evolving governance landscape, let us build the governance lens in the upcoming chapter.