Bias detection techniques
- [Instructor] Having discussed the basics of machine learning bias in the previous chapter, let's explore ways to detect and overcome bias. In this chapter, we will begin with bias detection processes and techniques. What does the bias detection process look like? First, identify the protected attributes in the dataset. This can be done through exploring the schema of the training dataset. For each of the protected attributes, identify the privileged and unprivileged classes. Create proxy binary attributes for the protected attribute. This will be a new attribute with values of one for the privileged classes and zero for the unprivileged classes. In cases where the original attribute is a continuous attribute, use bin to convert it into equivalent binary attributes. Then use these proxy attributes with bias detection techniques that we will discuss in the next slide. Most bias detection techniques use these proxy attributes to understand which records represent the privileged and unprivileged classes and generate measures to compare the model performance between them. What are some of the common techniques to understand bias? First, there are class imbalance measures. This can be a simple histogram to compare if the privileged and unprivileged classes have equal representation in the training data set, and that one does not dominate the other during the modeling process. Then comes the demographic disparity measure that helps understand model performance by each demographic. Another popular measure is the equal opportunity score which checks if the privileged and unprivileged classes have equal opportunities for getting positive outcomes. You can compare model accuracy differences between these classes. Similarly, you can compare recall differences between the classes to understand if bias plays a role in the model outcomes. In this chapter, we will explore equal opportunity scores in detail and do an exercise in Python. I highly recommend learners to use supplemental reading on the other techniques mentioned.