Equal opportunity score
- [Instructor] Let's explore the concepts around equal opportunity score in detail now. Equal opportunity score, or EOS for short, is a popular technique in measuring bias for a machine learning model. EOS helps analyze if a model treats both the privileged and unprivileged classes equally. It ensures that the model performance is independent of the protected attributes. In other words, the outcomes from the model should not depend upon the protected attribute. The EOS values range from zero to one. The closer the score is to one, the lower the biases. The closer the score is to zero, the higher the biases. For EOS to be computed, protected attributes need to be converted into binary classes as discussed earlier. EOSs works by building a classification model with the binary attributes and then analyzing the outcome attribution to the protected attributes. Let's explore the math behind the EOS score now. Here we compute the unprivileged probability and privileged probability. Unprivileged probability is the probability of predicting a positive outcome when the true label is positive and the protected attribute is zero. Privileged probability is the probability of predicting a positive outcome when the true label is positive and the protected attribute is one. If both are equal, that means both the classes have equal probabilities. The formula for EOS is computed by taking a minimum of the unprivileged probability divided by the privileged probability and the privileged probability divided by the unprivileged probability. The second formula is the reverse of the first one, so if both probabilities are close to each other, then both the formulae will yield numbers closer to one. The minimum will also be closer to one. On the other hand, if the probabilities are far apart, then one of the formulae will provide a low value leading to the EOS value being low. Let's consider an example. If the unprivileged probability is 0.42, and the privileged probability is 0.41, the EOS score will be 0.97. This is a really good fairness score. In the second example, unprivileged probability is 0.41 and the privileged probability is 0.62. EOS goes down to 0.66. Let's now do a quick exercise to compute EOS for a simple example in the next video.