Model architecture
- When we use the term architecture with neural networks, what we're really talking about is the different layers within the network and how they connect to each other. With generative adversarial networks, we have two neural networks working together, and we'll go through in detail about how they're connected and how they learn from their output. - [Instructor] A lot of that comes down to the concept of the generator and the discriminator. So these are actually two separate models that are working with and against each other as part of the entire system. How they work together is through the training process. So again, traditionally training is about taking a data set, processing through the data set, learning from that data set by adjusting weights, based on the amount of error or the loss. This is done in two separate areas in a generative adversarial network. It's done in the generator model and it's done in the discriminator model. So what exactly is it learning? It's actually learning how to work against each other, and I can show you through a diagram. So this is a classic diagram from a paper that I've referenced below as well and it shows essentially how this system works. The capital G is the generator model, and the capital D is the discriminator model. The purpose of the generator model is to generate synthesized samples, so examples of the images or examples of media in the same shape and size of an image. And the purpose of the discriminator is to take those synthesized samples and compare them to real samples and try and tell the difference. The discriminator's role is to predict if it's real or fake. The results of that judgment are then used to both improve the discriminator model and the generator model. So in some ways, the generator is always trying to trick the discriminator, and the discriminator is always trying to, I won't say find the truth, but always trying to find out what are the real images and what are the synthesized images. So you can see that they kind of work against each other and with each other in one system. So how do we actually combine these in one process? How do we put it all together? And that's what we'll walk through with a code example. So GANs use multiple models as part of their system. Models learn by passing data through the system, looking at the loss and trying to reduce that loss by updating the weights. Each model, although they're working against each other, they aim to reach their optimum.