Feature drift detection example
- [Instructor] We will now look at examples of detecting and analyzing feature drift. For this, we will use the same training and production datasets that we have loaded up in our earlier example. We first begin by doing histograms for all the categorical features in both the training and production datasets. Both datasets have 1,000 samples. If we look at the histograms, we can see that age range and income category shows significant distribution changes. For example, in age range, training data has more samples for category 1 then production data. Similarly, category 3 has increased in count in production. Race and credit ratings have not shown any significant changes between these two datasets. Let's now also measure drift using chi squared distribution using the Alibi Detect library. For this we first create a drift detector using the training features. The key information to pass here is the p-value as a threshold. The p-value is the measure of similarity between the two datasets. A value of 0.05 means if the p-value is less than 0.05, then drift exists in the dataset. We use the predict method to compute the p-value and then compare it to the threshold and print if there is drift or not. We see that the p-value for both age range and income category are very low, and hence we have drift. On the other hand, race and credit rating have high values. This correlates with the visual analysis we did with the histograms. I highly recommend that learners explore more on chi squared to understand the math behind the drift predictions.