Unique challenges with ML
- [Instructor] When compared to plain vanilla software applications, building machine learning applications poses additional challenges that needs to be tackled for successful execution. Let's begin with the concept of artifacts. An artifact is any entity that is created or consumed during the development process. Software engineering deals with only two types of artifacts, software code and records. Records are any documentation that is created are consumed during the process, including requirements, design, test plans, test results, and acceptance results. The software engineering process deals with how the life cycle of these artifacts are managed in a controlled fashion for streamlined execution. During this process, artifacts are consumed, processed, and new artifacts created. So we have two artifacts in software engineering, records and code. So the records are like requirements and design that are used to create code. In turn code is used to create other records like test results. The software engineering process deals with the creation, validation, promotion, change management, and governance of these artifacts. Various processes and tools are used in managing the life cycle. Artifacts feed off each other. One artifact is the input to create another. Now let's look at the artifacts for ML engineering. All ML products still require code to run in executables, support APIs, pre-process inputs, interact with the model, and process results. Similar records are also required for ML. In addition, there are two more artifacts, namely data and models. Data is training data that is used to build the models. Now the interaction between these four types of artifacts is interesting. Records like requirements are used to prepare training data. This in turn creates records about processing status and errors. Requirements and training data are used to build models. The training process in turn creates records around training performance and results. The model is then integrated into code for creating executable binaries. The execution of these models in turn creates new training data. As we see, these metrics' interdependence creates challenges in coordinating the life cycle of these artifacts. So what are the unique challenges in ML development? Each artifact follows its own life cycle but has dependencies on other types of artifacts. This requires coordination. Collaboration requirements between teams that produce these artifacts will increase multifold. This in turn needs additional tools and workflows to manage and govern them. Each artifact needs a different set of skills to create and maintain, and these teams need to collaborate with each other. There is the need for an integrated workflow across all these life cycles to efficiently manage ML application development.