What is DevOps?
- [Instructor] DevOps is the most popular software creation and delivery methodology that drives continuous development in an agile fashion. DevOps combines development, testing, and operations of software into one integrated workflow. Rather than development and operations being separate entities, the integration helps drive faster iterations of software. DevOps combines people, processes, and technologies into a seamless workflow. It uses agile principles, best practices, and tools for optimal software development. It enables fast, yet methodical management of software development and delivery. It helps to drive continuous changes to software due to new requirements or issues and helps move these changes quickly into production. DevOps focuses on automation to improve efficiency of development and operations. The picture on the left shows the DevOps life cycle. The cycle keeps iterating in sprints. It starts with planning for the sprint. Next, requirements are converted to code, built and tested. The release happens in an automated fashion and is deployed in production. The software is operated and monitored. The performance of the software is then fed back into the cycle to plan for more requirements. The cycle then iterates over the life of the application. On the right, the diagram shows how develop, test, and operate activities overlap in DevOps. In traditional software development, they are done by separate independent teams. in DevOps, the same team manages all three of them. DevOps is the foundation for MLOps, which we will discuss in the next video.