Principles of MLOps
- [Instructor] What are the principles based on which MLOps functions? The overall objective of MLOps is to create an optimal end-to-end machine learning workflow that integrates different teams, modules, and artifacts to continuously improve and deliver machine learning solutions. The principles of MLOps focuses on helping achieve this overall objective. This set of principles need to be kept as goals when adding any policy, process, tool, or workflow into the machine learning pipeline. To begin, the solution should be modular with well defined boundaries and ownership. This helps different artifacts to evolve simultaneously while enabling integration. The process should enable continuous development, modeling, integration and deployment. Automation is a key principle to achieve efficiencies and scale. MLOps should enable incremental development with quick time to market. The entire workflow should be managed end-to-end with visibility into the current state of artifacts. Reproducibility of artifacts is a key requirement where, along with the artifact, the code, or steps needed to build it, are also managed. The workflow should scale to bigger data sets, modernizations, teams and deployments. The workflow and artifacts should be observable for monitoring and diagnosis. It should be possible to trace the lineage of an artifact from its data and model origins. The workflow should be secure with required access controls and privacy protections. By modeler, the workflow should be integrated for seamless movement of artifacts. The MLOps system should allow for changes in processes or workflows, without cascading impact. The entire system should be transparent for anyone to understand its inner workings. The system should enable collaboration between teams and artifacts. And finally, the system should be well organized with interfaces to outside teams, systems, and processes. These principles should be kept in mind while designing MLOps in an organization.