When to start MLOps?
- [Narrator] When should an organization or team start investing in MLOps? To answer this question, let's first try to understand how ML use cases evolve within an organization. There are usually three stages; exploration, experimentation, and engineering. Typically, an organization that is new to ML decides to focus on building ML solutions. They start the exploration process. A small team is formed for this purpose. The team then studies the ML technology ecosystem to understand what algorithms, products and technologies are available, which are applicable to their business domain. It also will explore possible business use cases to solve with ML. Then it would try to collect some sample data for these use cases and try to build a model. When it sees data and model feasibility, then they would put up a proposal to their executives on an ML strategy. At this stage, it's possible that the whole initiative might be dropped if no viable use cases emerge. Then the organization gets into the experimentation phase. Now there is usually a bigger team. The team will pick up a specific use case and dive deeper. It would collect and process training data to extract features. It would then conduct various training experiments to build a viable model. Results are reviewed periodically to understand if the model would perform to the business expectations within expected costs. This information is then used to decide on whether to proceed with an ML solution or not. The project may get dropped here if the solution is not viable. If the decision was made to move forward, then the organization gets into the engineering phase to build the actual solution. A full-fledged teams, including data engineers, data scientists, and software engineers is assembled. A product owner may come up with concrete requirements for the solution. The team will design the workflow. Complimentary non-ML software will also be built. The model training, testing and integration will be done methodically to create the first version. It is then deployed in production and its performance monitored. Between these three phases, when should an organization invest in MLOps? MLOps does take considerable time and effort. Doing it too soon may be a waste if the project gets dropped. Doing it too late would mean that there are inefficiencies and integration challenges for the team. During exploration, it's recommended to just have a very small team of two to three engineers and follow an ad hoc process. The project is not yet ready for MLOps investments. During experimentation, it's recommended to start adding MLOps capabilities as in when they are required. For example, a data engineering pipeline and a training pipeline may be built here, but work around deployment and operations would be postponed. During the engineering phase, a full-fledged MLOps system is recommended. MLOps itself would need manpower and technology investments to build, maintain and operate the workflow.