Overfitting in ANNs
- [Instructor] Overfitting is one of the main problems in building optimize models in machine learning. In this chapter, we will explore various options in controlling overfitting while building deep learning networks. What is overfitting? overfitting happens when a model adapts itself to suit this training data. It overfits the training data. When overfitting happens, a model will perform with very high accuracy when predicting against the training samples also known as in sample testing, but when predicting against independent data samples that are not in the training data, the accuracy levels would be low. Neural networks have a tendency to overfit when the models are too deep and have more than the required number of nodes. How do we take care of overfitting? A number of solutions are available. To begin with, we should focus on simpler models with smaller number of layers and nodes in a layer. It is highly recommended to start with small numbers and only increase them when accuracy against the best data is low. Also epochs and batch sizes should be controlled and the same recommendation of starting small and increasing as required holds good for them too. Another area to focus is on training data variety, the training data should have sufficient variety to cover a large number of real world occurrences. It should be sufficiently large for the model to learn. For a classification, there also needs to be a balance between various classes in the training data. Each class should be represented sufficiently in the training data set. In addition, there are two other techniques available, namely regularization and dropouts. We will discuss these two techniques in detail in the following videos.