Consequence scanning
- One way to apply ethics operationally is to perform consequence scanning during the early stages of product planning and throughout the development and maintenance life cycle. Another way is to implement consequence scanning during the planning and implementation of new features. You may be wondering who should be involved during the consequence scanning event. And I'll tell you, it should always include a wide variety of stakeholders. This includes our core team, user advocates, who are often social and behavioral scientists or user researchers, technology specialists from security, risk, and compliance, business specialists, and those likely to be impacted by our decision systems involuntarily. Let's start this exercise by explaining the intent and posting our list of intended consequences. Next, we ask participants to take some quiet time to answer the three questions based on their expertise and experience. Next, we group all similar ideas with each other and take more quiet time to add new consequences based on the other posts. Now we move into the action phase and sort the consequences into action categories, act, influence, or monitor. Those in the act category are consequences within the control of participants to act upon. The influence category represents consequences, which are out of your control but you can influence the outcome of. Lastly, the monitor category are those consequences completely out of your control, but could affect your product and so you should understand them better and monitor them. You'll want to spend the bulk of your discussion on this step. Now that you have the consequences outlined, everyone should vote on if the consequences in the act and influence categories are positive or need to be mitigated. Discuss how to make the consequences in these areas, be the more positive than negative. And assign responsibilities as appropriate. Once you've performed this, it's crucial we capture these insights in a consequences log. Some things might be quick wins that can be solved straight away, while others may take longer and may need to be saved for future development or are subject to other processes. Your consequences log should include the consequences, whether intended or unintended, positive or negative, what action stage is appropriate, act, influence, or monitor, prioritization, the ease of implementation versus the scale of impact, a hypothesis, propositions supported by evidence, and an action plan, a list of clear intentions and how we'll measure them, including the time scale, three months, six months or two years. Remember, AI systems affect all people differently. And some of those differences result in unintended consequences. In this field, it's critical that we do our due diligence to plan for, document, and mitigate the consequences of our work.