Big picture overview of a GAN
In this movie, we'll understand the basic architecture of a generative adversarial network. In the earlier movie, I introduced you to what a GAN was, but here is a more formal definition. A machine learning model in which two neural networks compete with one another to become more accurate in their predictions. The neural networks play a zero-sum game. The zero-sum game implies that as one neural network gets better at what it does, the second neural network becomes worse, so both of them can't improve at the same time. One starts off as very good and gets worse, the second one starts off as very bad and gets better. The adversaries that make up a generative adversarial network are the generator and the discriminator. The generator is ultimately responsible for generating the data, and the discriminator tries to figure out whether data that it sees is real or fake. Let's talk about the generator first. During the training of a GAN, the generator learns to generate plausible data. Data that could be mistaken for real data. Let's talk about this in terms of images because that's what we usually use with GANs. The objective of the generator during the training process is to generate images that look real. The output of the generator is fed into the adversarial network, the discriminator, and the generated data serves as negative samples used to train the discriminator. Now, the generator gets feedback from the discriminator as to how well it did with the generated data. To start off with, the data generated by the generator will be pretty bad, but the generated data improves in quality during the training process. The idea is during the training process, the generator gets so good at producing data that looks real that the discriminator finds it hard to tell generated data from real data, and the discriminator starts misclassifying instances. Now, let's talk about the other adversary here in this network, the discriminator model. This is a separate neural network. And the objective of the discriminator is to figure out what data is fake that has come from the generator and what data is real, that is data that comes from a real database. As you might imagine to start off with, in the initial stages of the training process, the generated data will be of poor quality, and the discriminator is able to easily identify this as fake data. The discriminator then penalizes the generator for generating implausible data, and thus forces the generator to improve. As the generator improves the quality of the samples that it generates with discriminator feedback, the discriminator ability to tell real data apart from fake data steadily goes down. At the end of the training process, the generated samples should be so close to the real dataset that the discriminator basically starts guessing at random. It's unable to tell fake data and real data apart. Here is a big picture architectural overview of a generative adversarial network. There are the two components here, the generator and discriminator. Let me walk you through what each block does. The generator generates samples of fake data. It takes in a random noise as an input, and then uses that to produce a sample that will then be fed into the discriminator. Now, the discriminator gets data from two sources, the output of the generator and real data from a real database. If you're talking in terms of images, there will be a number of images which form a part of the training data. These are real images and these are also fed into the discriminator. The discriminator will process images from both sources, real images and fake images, and the objective of the discriminator is to be able to identify what images are real and what images are fake. Sound familiar? Well, you're right. The discriminator is nothing but a classification model. The discriminator tries to classify real images as real and fake images as fake. That's the objective of its training. And input to the generator is a latent noise variable, and it's this noise that the generator uses to generate samples. And this is a big-picture overview of how a GAN is structured. The generator and discriminator are adversaries, and during the training process, both try to outdo the other. And since they're playing a zero-sum game, as the generator gets better and the quality of the data that it generates improves, the discriminator gets steadily worse.