Early examples of GANs
- [Narrator] So, here are a few early examples of the types of images that can be generated by generative adversarial networks. So in the beginning, in the original research paper, you can see that these are some of the example images that were created. And on the right you can basically, well, you can make out some of the animals that were created from the dataset. So, I remember when I first saw this I was really enthusiastic and really almost mesmerized that it was possible that this could come out of a system like this. Even though it's blurry, you can certainly make out what they're supposed to be, or at least I can't really make out the third one, but the other ones I can. In terms of more modern examples, people have taken that architecture and that concept and expanded. They've researched some different types of actual architectures for the models. They've investigated different ways that they can work together and made far more advancements. So in terms of some more modern applications of generative adversarial networks, NVIDIA has published this research piece where they've actually generated some extremely high quality pieces of art. As you can see, it looks extremely impressive and they've been able to generate these from generative adversarial networks. In terms of future research, there's still research being done, obviously, in the area of GANs, as with all generative AI. But what we are starting to see next is different types of media. So one recent example for a paper, and I have all the references in the notes as well, is actually how to generate spectographs or generate audio as well using some of these technologies or some of these processes, which I think is really wild. So, I've included a reference in the notes, but this is from a famous paper showing the progress of GANs over time. You can see from the left to the right, even just over four years, how different the generative images are. You can see there's a sharp difference between 2016 and 2017 when the quality is far higher.