What is copilot stack?
- So if you were there at Microsoft Build either in the audience or attending remotely you learned about the copilot stack. And the copilot stack was a bit radical because it put UX at the front of it. Now, what is a copilot? It's an application using modern AI to assist you with complex cognitive tasks. There's copilots and there's plugins. The plugins are what connects a copilot with the outside world. You want to remember that copilots and plugins together are going to change how you make software. In what ways? User experience, your app architecture and your concern for safety and security. You want to remember that AI used to be about building models and the model was the product but no longer. You're building products that use the model. You're making user experiences that use the model. That's the new way of doing things. So when you build copilots you want to remember three things. They are a new development pattern, they are a different kind of architecture you're likely not used to. And lastly, they will be everywhere. You're probably using one right now. The copilot stack is deceivingly simple. There are five layers. First off, at the very bottom, there's AI infrastructure. Above that, there's foundation models. Above that in the middle is AI orchestration, semantic kernel. You may have taken the course. Above that, copilots are built on top of it and also plugins to connect you to the outside world. To learn more watch Chief Technology Officer, EVP of AI, Kevin Scott's talk at Build 23. So why are you here? You want to learn how to build better user experiences with copilots. Remember, the old way was producing models, the new way you're consuming models. It's very different. Old way, I'm going to build an incredible model that does AI. New way, I'm going to build an app on top of that model, I'm going to consume it. Now, once you use these models, you're going to care a lot about safety and security. Note that in the copilot stack, safety and security is not a module and it has to go throughout every layer of the stack. Now, as a developer, why do you care about this kind of AI and building with it? I don't have to convince you about that but you're going to have to use a new word collaborate. That means collaborating with your marketing partners, your product partners, your design partners, your ops partners. It's because this stuff is changing so quickly and you may be the only one in your organization who really understands the math and the process and the computational shift. So that's a lot of power comes a lot of responsibility. So with that in mind let's learn how to use the copilot stack in practical ways to improve the user experiences of your products.