Deployment best practices
- [Instructor] The deployment best practices. Discussed in this video applied to both ML and non-ML services. One of the key areas that is often ignored during deployments is observation and rollback. Deployments will fail from time to time. Unforeseen issues will arise that can put your production services in trouble. This requires proper planning and execution of rollbacks to previous known good states. It is recommended to create a comprehensive operations plan for deployments. This plan should cover the rollback strategy in detail with specific steps to execute, there should be objective validation criteria and a test plan to review if the deployment is successful, that should also be a detailed rollback plan that covers the criteria to decide on rollback and the steps to execute to get the production to a stable state. The plan is no good if it is not properly tested. Testing the plan makes sure that any missing steps are added and unknown issues are taken care of. Finally, implementation of the plan should be enforced as part of the overall operational process. Similar to other phases of the MLOps cycle, automation plays a key role in scaling the deployments in an efficient manner. It improves agility while reducing human effort. It is recommended to automate the deployment of models and services, either through a human trigger or through a workflow trigger. Similarly, validation of deployed services and automation of rollbacks is also recommended. This helps in quick reaction to deployment issues and restoring production back to its normal state. Automation needs to be tested comprehensively to reduce failures and false positives as production can be impacted severely when automation goes wrong.