Where generative AI has moved to
- Current and future applications. So now that we've had a bit of a look at the research, the code behind GANs and how they were created, let's have a look at how they're used today and where they're heading to in the future. In the media these days, there are more and more examples of generative AI, examples of realistic images being created of people, places and even movies. There are a lot more public conversations about this as well, about where it's headed and when we won't be able to tell the real from the fake. There's a website called This Person Does Not Exist, and it generates realistic photos of people. There's a little trick as well. You can usually tell that the photo is not real by the placement of the person's eyes. They're always in the same spot. But this is just one example which has been running for quite a while of showing how far generative AI has gone. There's more and more open source, more and more code bases, more and more communities and availabilities of tools to be able to create and train your own models. You are able to see in this course that even a simple GAN could be trained with GitHub code spaces. So more and more resources are opening up and being made available to everyone. There's a great GitHub repo called GANS-awesome-applications, which gives not only the original papers that we spoke about but also a lot of upcoming research and tools to train your own networks. So with more exposure there's been more developers, more data and more research. All of those in combination have led to more open, accessible research.