Elements of responsible AI
- [Narrator] Responsible AI is an area that is gaining more importance around the world as concerns about the harmful effects of AI grow in our society. While there is excitement about the disruptive potential of AI in improving our personal lives and business, there are also ethical concerns around bias, security, privacy, and transparency of these solutions. Responsible AI, or RAI for short, is a set of principles, processes, and practices to ensure that ML models are accepted in our society as ethical, thereby building trust in its capabilities. This trust is important for the wide acceptance of AI. Ensuring conformance to responsible AI principles and practices is a key area for MLOps. What are the key elements of responsible AI? To begin, ML models should be explainable. This means it should be possible to explain why a model made a specific prediction by looking at the inputs to the model. It helps to eliminate doubts about its sanctity. Next, accountability is needed for the predictions made by models. Models may fail often, leading to undesirable consequences. Human ownership of these results are required to ensure accountability. Reproducibility of results is a key requirement for models. This helps to troubleshoot why a model behaved in a specific way under specific circumstances, and hence, alleviate any issues found. Models have the tendency to pick up patterns based on features like gender, age, race, et cetera, and use them to make predictions, even if these attributes do not exist explicitly in the training data. Tracking and eliminating bias is another key requirement for RAI. Human-centered AI focuses on keeping humans in the loop for model training and inference. This allows humans to monitor and control model behavior and have kill switches when models go rogue. ML solutions need to ensure security, whether it is physical security, service access, or data production. They also need to be compliant to various standards, laws, and regulations to protect user privacy. RAI is an expanding field and more elements are being added to the scope. How do we implement responsible AI in an organization? Commitment and resources are needed for successful RAI. First, an RAI owner needs to be appointed, who is accountable for ensuring that models and products conform to RAI requirements. Policies and procedures need to be created to lay out how the organization will adapt and enforce RAI. These should be augmented with tools and automation for efficiency and scale. All employees should be educated on these policies and processes, and a culture that fosters RAI should be built. RAI implementation should be monitored for conformance, and any exceptions handled with priority. The process should be audited periodically, and corrective action should be taken when needed.