Explainable AI
- [Instructor] The ability to interpret why a model is predicting in a certain way is becoming more and more important as AI faces challenges from governments and society about its ethics. Explainable AI, or XAI for short, is a set of processes and tools that allows humans to understand model behavior by correlating the output to the input features that influenced it. This is reverse engineering the behavior of a model to explain which features impacted a specific prediction. Why do we need explainable AI? Models are becoming black boxes. As we focus more and more on deep learning models, especially for NLP and vision applications, it's not possible to understand why a model is predicting in a certain manner. As a result, questions arise about its accuracy and fairness, and whether it is performing like a human in these situations. Lack of trust in society is impacting the growth of AI and limiting its applications. On the other hand, we now have a growing set of loss regulations and standards for AI, and compliance to these will require the ability to explain model behavior. Models can also decay over time as seen in the previous chapter, and we need explainable AI to help us understand how input changes are influencing the model. Similarly, if there are data issues happening, they may also go unnoticed without knowing how they are influencing the outcomes. Techniques for explainable AI is a novel and expanding field. I will call out a few of these techniques here and encourage you to do further reading on these. A simple technique is to do a manual analysis of inputs and outputs with sampling, but this is a painstaking exercise. We can visualize the inputs and outputs in n dimensional plots to understand specific patterns. Beyond this, new techniques like surrogate model explanation technique, or LIME, layer-wise relevance propagation, and Deep Tailor decomposition can be used to understand model behavior. This is a constantly evolving domain, and we can see a lot more new techniques showing up in the near future.