Collaborative UX practices
- So with the collaborative UX remember the human is the pilot and the AI is the co-pilot. Also, remember that the AI co-pilot is only as good as a human co-pilot. Want to remember that this model is difficult to adopt because you remember the old way, commanding. And so the new way, collaborating. Commanding is, hey computer, go do this. And the computer says back, got it, boss, right away. That was command. The new way is collaborating. You're the pilot. Let's reach for this big goal. And the co-pilot saying, yeah, let's do that. That's hard. Collaboration, generative. Commanding, kind of degenerative in some ways. Now, why are we used to working with computers this old way? Because we are used to having a calculator. And with a calculator, you're like add these two numbers together, 12 and 12. 24. Now imagine if the calculator said let's collaborate on the answer. You wouldn't allow it, you just bossed it around. That's the commanding way. And the commanding way is different than collaborating. However, once we collaborate and we're reading the text on the screen we can't help but wonder, is there a person behind this? This is an old idea. When I was at MIT in the 80s, long time ago, right? Learning AI, I was like a teenager and I got to my AI class and it was like, oh, I dunno who this professor is. And when you're a kid you go to class and you kind of dismiss the professor. And I cut class a lot by the way. But the professor's name was Joseph Weizenbaum. Years later I realized he was the pioneer of AI chat systems. He wrote his first chat system in 1966, a chatbot called Eliza and his life was changed by making Eliza. Didn't go off and commercialize it. He instead asked extremely deep questions about what it means to have a computer program talking at you. He wrote, "What I had not realized is that extremely short exposures to a relatively simple computer program could induce powerful delusional thinking in quite normal people." That there's a human being behind that. That's the 1970s. That's the danger. And that's why collaborative UX isn't about collaborating with a sentient being, it's about, hate to be boring, the human's a pilot and the AI is a copilot. Let's talk about one collaborative UX pattern. It's called the AI Notice Pattern. It's an annoying thing that pops up and says, you better remember this is an AI generating this information. What's it there for? It's a reminder that you as the human have to up your critical thinking game. You want to ask, what came back? Okay, that was pretty good, co-pilot but let me think about it. Let me slow down and think about it. A second collaborative UX pattern is Suggested Prompts. You know, when the AI can do this many things this way when you roll the dice? Well versus these things here where it's not good at, it's not a bad idea for the copilot to say, hey pilot, why don't we do this and this? I'm good at that kind of thing. So that's what the idea of giving options is about. It's about enabling the copilot to do well with the pilot. A third collaborative UX pattern is Feedback Opportunities. You're the human and the reality is that you are the critical thinker in that duet. So you are the one that knows it's more correct and so when it isn't correct enough, give it feedback. Think of you're being a boss and one of your team members needs feedback to improve the same way. You're the pilot, you're the co-pilot. Your users need to give feedback. Good news. With just these three basic patterns, you're well on your way to becoming an expert in collaborative UX that will be practiced at Microsoft. Now remember that these patterns are grounded in the co-pilot stack, the tech stack might mind you. But let's go into those layers next to understand how they relate to these collaborative UX principles.