Copilot stack layers
- So the Copilot stack has five components and layers. In the middle there is AI orchestration. That's to view Semantic Kernel. You know what that is, it's about sequencing things. So they follow a plan, goes through a flow. Below AI orchestration is foundation models, the reason why we're all here and curious about this new kind of AI. And below foundation models is the AI infrastructure, the hardware that runs it all, GPU world. We go above the AI orchestration level, we have UX, we wrap it. That makes it feel like a Copilot. And we also have plugins. Plugins are things we can dock into. Let's use a car, because we all kind of know what cars are still, 'cause cars are changing so much. But anyways, let's use a car. And a car has wheels and a chassis that makes it car-like, that's the AI infrastructure. It's powered by something, gas, electricity, hydrogen, that's foundation models. Then you have AI orchestration, that's the steering and brakes, the control system. And the UX could be the dashboard, the windshield, the leather seats you sit in to feel comfortable. And lastly, plugins are those things you add to the vehicle. Maybe a way to become a submarine, or maybe as something simple as a little LED thing in your screen. Things you buy and add on. We want to remember that in all these layers, the thing that is possibly easiest to control is the UX part. Plugins are also easy to control, you just snap them in. You don't have to build them. Think about adding something to your car, you didn't have to build that. The UX you build, it requires less AI technology. But everything below that, the AI orchestration, it's got like full-blown AI in it. The foundation models themselves, that special fuel you're using. They're both non-deterministic, meaning that you're rolling the dice. And the AI infrastructure running below it is deterministic, but wow, that's changing. Think all the GPUs powering it and new architectures being built. So the tech stack has a lot of non-determinism in it. Now, why is this a problem? Well, it's more of an opportunity to realize that, "Whoa, a new day." Because a conventional tech stack is all about consistency means quality. A good calculator, 12 plus 12, always 24. The Copilot stack, however, is non-deterministic in nature, which means that sometimes it will give you a different answer, sometimes a wrong answer. So the old way of quality, precision, the new way of quality, imprecision, high-quality imprecision. That's why we're struggling today understanding how to build with these things. So how do we unpack that with collaborative UX? We use the famous Iron Triangle, quality, speed, and cost. And I'll tell you why in the next episode.