Setting up the exercise files
- [Instructor] In this video, we will set up the exercise files and the environment to use in this course. All course exercises are built using Python 3.9. We will be using Anaconda and Jupyter Notebooks for these exercises. You can download and install Anaconda from the website anaconda.com/download for your specific operating system. Once downloaded and installed, we will go to the Anaconda UI. Here, we will create a new virtual environment called monitoring. We will choose Python 3.9 as the Python version. This will take some time to set up. The environment is set up now. Now we can go back to Home, make sure we have selected monitoring, and then we will install Jupyter Notebooks. Jupyter Notebooks is installed now. Open the command prompt window. Please note that if you are on Windows, you would want to use the Anaconda command prompt for the same. The exercise files for this course have been downloaded on my computer to the folder /Users/linkedin/ExerciseFiles. Please download the exercise files on your computer in a similar folder. Navigate to that folder on the command prompt. We can explore these files from the command prompt. Now, let's activate the new virtual environment we created using the command conda activate monitoring. Then we can start the Jupyter Notebook server using the command jupyter notebook. Please make sure that you are in the same folder as the exercise files are before using the command. This command then opens the Jupyter Notebook in the browser. The exercise files and the data files can be seen in the root directory. We will use these files in the later exercises. In the next chapter, we will review the basics of model monitoring.