Fairness and bias
- Bias in a business context impacts specific demographics or classes unfairly denying them opportunities and benefits. The bias we have as humans will also extend to the data we create and the models that are trained on that data. Let's now discuss fairness and bias in machine learning and how we can manage and overcome it while building and serving machine learning models. What is bias in common terms? Bias is considered prejudice against someone or something that influences opportunities and outcomes in ways it is not intended to. Bias typically happens based on identities or traits, like gender, race, and age. How does bias impact business? Business decisions may sometimes be influenced by bias towards someone or something. Hiring, providing opportunities, determining benefits, rewards, and approval processes may be influenced by bias for or against a specific identity. For example, a hiring manager may prefer younger candidates and may bias against older ones. Several factors can cause bias among humans in a business context. They may be race, gender, age, ethnicity, or wealth. Business decision makers may prefer those who belong to the same identity as theirs. Bias can be intentional or unintentional. Preconceived opinions may influence how humans make business decisions. Bias in a business context impacts specific demographics or classes unfairly denying them opportunities and benefits. The bias we have as humans will also extend to the data we create and the models that are trained on that data.