Demographic parity
- [Instructor] Next, we look at the concept of demographic parity. What is demographic parity? Each protected attribute can have multiple classes or values. For example, marital status is a protected attribute that can have classes like single, married, widowed or divorced. Some classes in protected attributes are considered privileged demographics. This is because they have historically had unfair advantages over other unprivileged demographics. For example, when it comes to the privileged attribute gender, men may have had historical advantage over women when it comes to employment in a given organization. Men could be considered a privileged class while women could be considered unprivileged in this regard. Demographic parity requires that equal opportunity or outcomes be given to both the privileged and unprivileged demographics. Let's look at an example for demographic parity. Let's say we have a job candidate data set with a race attribute. There are five different class values for the races. Race one and race two are considered privileged. Race three, four, and five are considered unprivileged. Suppose we are hiring. In the first example, we see that candidates belonging to the privileged demographics are hired 26% of the time. Candidates from the unprivileged demographic are hired 25% of the time. These are more or less equal and considered as demographic parity. On the other hand, if the candidates from privileged demographics are hired 38% of the time and unprivileged demographics are hired 16% of the time, then demographic parity does not exist. This is considered biased against the unprivileged races.