Managed feature stores
- [Instructor] One of the key features needed in the data pipeline for ML is the feature store. A feature store is a centralized store for features. When we say features, we mean those that are of interest and directly consumed by ML models. Data is already pre-processed and converted to a form that is ready for machine learning. An organization may have a single feature store that may be shared by multiple teams and ML models. The feature store is regularly updated with new training data and new features. It also usually supports a registry of features so that users can look up the registry to understand the data that is available in the store. Let's discuss some of the best practices for feature stores. This will help in the long term to make ML workflows easier to begin with. It's recommended to create a central store, with shared ownership and defined responsibilities. In an organization there is usually a common set of data that is used by multiple models and teams. So managing a central feature store saves costs and enables reusability. The feature store should have a flexible schema that can accommodate regular additions without having to change the consumers. The feature store may have multiple related data sets. It's recommended to keep them separate and not force a hard merge and denormalized data. As long as the linking attributes are available, consumers of the data can perform joins during query time. The feature store should keep an updated registry. This helps multiple teams to easily understand what is available and not resort to duplicate processing work. One problem with having a common store for multiple teams is when each team wants small last minute customizations. It's recommended to keep a common format as much as possible and let the teams customize when they query for training. A feature store may need multiple types of database technologies that can store files, tables, images, and media. It's essential to keep storage cost low.