Data versioning
- Data versioning is a key aspect of tracking lineage for data. Managing training data with a data versioning system like DVC provides the ability to change data continuously while ensuring consistent training results and collaboration. What is data versioning? It's a similar concept as versioning for software code. It helps to create an immutable baseline for datasets. The dataset may be a raw dataset, an intermediate dataset, or a feature dataset. The training datasets keep getting updated with newer datasets, attributes, and computations. Versioning helps keep track of these changes. The version for data changes when it's contents change similar to software code. For data, a version can be maintained at a feature level, record level, or dataset level. The exact type used depends upon the versioning tool and the use case. When data is versioned, a specific version can be referenced for model training and testing. Different teams can consume different versions of the same dataset and ensure repeatable results. What are some of the benefits of data versioning? To begin with, it enables traceability in ML Ops, we can trace the history of a dataset, we can link a specific version of the dataset to a specific model number and experiment number. As a result, it enables the ability to rerun some experiments and recreate the same model again using the older version even if the training data is updated later. It also becomes a change log capture tool for feature tools. It allows data to be rolled back to the last known good state if errors in processing create erroneous new data. Multiple users can reference different versions of the dataset. So while a specific ML model is being worked on by data scientists based on a specific version, the dataset can evolve independently without impacting the modeling work.