Data governance
- [Instructor] Data governance is a key area in MLOps that deals with the administration of data stored and used for machine learning. Data governance is the practice of ensuring integrity, security, and usability of data through an organization of people, policies, and processes. It is a central theme in MLOps to build trust about data with everyone involved in it, whom the data is about, who creates the data, and who uses it. What are the key elements of data governance with respect to training data? Let's discuss a few. These elements, once again, apply to all types of data whether they are raw data, intermediate data, temporary data, features, metadata, and whether they are at rest or in motion in the pipeline. The first goal of governance is ensuring consistency of data. This means that all users see a consistent snapshot of the data once they are committed to the data store. Next comes ensuring the integrity of data. Data stored across the pipeline should be complete, accurate, conform to requirements, and should be without errors. Security is a critical aspect of data storage and processing. Only the users who have required permissions should be able to view, create, modify, and delete data. Data should be secure from adversarial attacks. Privacy is a key issue in data, especially when the data contains sensitive personal information. Today's business environment needs conformance to multiple laws, regulations, and standards. Privacy practices like reduction and obfuscation are expected to be part of the pipeline to ensure protection of sensitive data. Then comes resiliency of data. Protection is required against inadvertent and adversarial data loss. Backups, standbys, and redundancies schemes are required to protect against data loss. Recovery mechanisms are required to recover data to the last known good state when issues do happen. Finally, governance also deals with the life cycle of data from its creation to its cleanup. Policies should be in place supported by automation to ensure that the entire data life cycle is controlled and tracked. What does it take to implement data governance in an organization? First, identify a training data governance team. The team should contain both the owners of data and also custodians. Custodians are administrators who manage the data governance functions, create policies, processes, and procedures for training data governance. If the organization already has those for their production data, reuse them and adapt as required. Identify all data elements that need to be governed across the ML pipeline. Classify the identified data based on security and privacy requirements. Some data may need higher levels of governance than others based on their importance and sensitivity. Finally, enforce governance through automation to increase scale and efficiency, and reduce human errors.