7 to 7 network GUI demo
- Lastly, let's look at the seven to seven network. Now, I'm not showing the raw outputs any longer but another set of sliders simulating an actual LED seven segment display. This display will show us what the neural network infers from the input. Again, if the input is a valid pattern, then there is no excuse for outputting anything other than that pattern because the neural network is very well trained. The interesting part is the output we get when we enter an invalid pattern. Let me train the network for 2000 epochs. Once again, let me test the networks to see if it's working correctly. So let's enter number two. Then number six. And finally number one. Great. And now I want to show you a nice example of how the neural network struggles to get the incoming pattern right. I'll show you an invalid pattern now. The pattern at the left is very special because depending on the state of the bottom left and the bottom right segments, it could be two or three. If both segments are on, the pattern is invalid as well as when both segments are off. So at this point, both segments are off and the output is showing something that looks more like a three than a two. But notice as I slowly increase the brightness of the leftmost segment, the output becomes more confident of seeing a two and less confident of seeing a three. So you will see those two sliders at the right go in opposite directions. In fact, whenever I move either of those sliders, the sliders at the right will be having a tug of war towards the correct pattern. Like I said, the interesting part is the output we get when we enter an invalid or rather an incomplete pattern. This behavior is similar to a text completion application. For example, if I turn every segment off, it suggests something that looks like a nine or maybe a four. Now let me turn on segment B. It looks to me like a one and slightly as a seven. Now let's see what happens when I turn on the top left segment. This incomplete pattern seems to make our neural network think of number four. So that's it for the demos. Now, I don't expect these videos to be enough for you. So if you are following along go ahead and play around with these three systems hopefully with your own version of MLP dot pi.