Alerts and thresholds for ML
- [Instructor] In this video, we will focus on creating thresholds and alerts for ML-related monitoring. A well-designed threshold and alerting system helps in efficient continuous monitoring of ML services by requesting the right amount of attention from the ML team at the right time. Threshold and alerting systems in general should get quick attention for valid issues while eliminating false positives. How are thresholds and alerts set up specifically for machine learning-related issues? They are usually based on model drift or model bias. They are also set up for model operational performance degradation that is not explained by system or application issues. In drift and bias, there is usually a slow decay in performance unless there are data-related issues. We will discuss this in detail in the next chapter. Fixing issues in ML usually means retraining, but it is an expensive process. In general, it is recommended to not act too fast. Rather, explore the causes for the issues before jumping into conclusions. It is important to reproduce the symptoms in development or training setups and observe for courses for better understanding of the problem. What are the best practices for setting thresholds in ML? Thresholds should be set based on specific metrics and their values. For example, we can set a threshold when the model accuracy falls below 80% and then create an alert if the value actually goes below 80. Care should be taken to not set thresholds too low, as there may be false alarms. Similarly, if the thresholds are set too high, then it may be too late to prevent serious failures. Identify the right threshold values for each metric by each model after careful exploration. Experiment with exception scenarios and fine-tune thresholds. It is also important to periodically review the values to ensure that they still hold good. These best practices apply to system and application metrics also. Once we have set thresholds, how do we trigger alerts when they are breached? In general, it's important to answer a few questions to determine how alerts are set up. First, we start with the reason why the alert should be sent. There should be specific reasons when an action needs to be taken. Then comes when the alert should be sent. It can be based on a set of conditions based on thresholds, like a single threshold being breached, a series of breaches, or a count of breaches by specific time intervals. Next comes the question of who should be notified. This is a list of people who have the authority and responsibility to take action. The media for alerting is also important, whether it's an email, text message, or a phone call. Finally, all this information should be captured in a process or procedure document. The document should clearly call out on who gets the alert and what action is expected to be taken. A well-set-up thresholding and alerting system includes both automation of monitoring and alerting, as well as a process on how the alerts will be handled. These best practices apply for system and application metrics also.