Concept drift basics
- [Instructor] There are two types of drift that can happen in machine learning, namely concept drift and feature drift. We will discuss concept drift in this video. A machine learning model essentially captures the relationship between the features and the target, and uses this information to make predictions. A concept drift occurs when the relationship between the features and the target changes over time. As a result, the model is no longer able to predict accurately and needs to be retrained. In the formula for conditional probability of Y given X, when the joint probability of X and Y changes, concept drift occurs. For example, let's say in the real world, the patient has diabetes 80% of the time when their age is greater than 50. A model built on such data will also predict the same. Let's say for five months, the ground truth holds good and the model predicts with the same level of accuracy. By the sixth month, a new medication for diabetes lowers A1C levels and changes the probability of being diabetic when the age is greater than 50 to just 50%. The old model built on the old data will continue to predict that 80% of those above 50 as diabetic and hence turn inaccurate. This is concept drift. What causes concept drift in real scenarios. There are multiple reasons. There could be changes in the ecosystem that may trigger changes in the behavior of subjects. For example, a new marketing campaign with deep discounts may increase conversion rates. A new demographic may start buying more. There could also be cyclic and seasonal variations that are not covered in the training data. For example, during the school reopening season, the sale of school supplies will go up. If a model predicting school supplies did not consider the seasonal variation, it will be inaccurate during the season. Another reason is that the training data is not from the same population as production data. This includes data distribution and frequency. In such cases, drift may be noticed immediately after deployment. How do we measure and handle concept drift? We will discuss this in the next video.