Managing concept drift
- We will discuss the techniques and best practices for managing concept drift in this video. How do we measure concept drift? It is actually pretty straightforward. What inputs do we need? We only need the predicted labels and true labels in production. For example, if we are predicting if a website user will eventually buy a product we need the prediction and if the user actually made the purchase later in that session or in a week we need to collect this information for many predictions over a period of time, say a week or a month. Then we can compute the overall accuracy of the predictions and see how much it deviates from the baseline accuracy found during model training. Based on these values, we can review and take action. The biggest challenge in measuring concept drift is that true labels are not available all the time to verify if the prediction is accurate. In such cases, we may have to collect explicit feedback either from the user or using labeling techniques on production data before computing drift. What are some of the best practices for concept drift management? Drift should be computed for regular time intervals like a day, week, or a month. Choose intervals where sufficient samples are expected to be available. Two few samples would result in significant sampling errors. Watch the drift trend over multiple time intervals. Drift may happen in one time interval but can quickly go back to normal. It may also oscillate within a given band set up thresholds and min-max bands for automated monitoring of drift and triggering alerts, it is recommended to act only if the drift consistently stays out of the threshold bans. It's important to analyze the root cost for drift by involving data scientists and domain experts. Understanding the cost is essential in coming up with the corrective action. For example, it may turn out that a key feature variable is missing in training. Use new production data as training data in the next revision while incorporating all the learnings from the drift.