Change management
- [Instructor] It is fair to say that the world is still warming up to the possibilities of Generative AI. However, one thing is sure, the change is in the order. Generative AI has been a transformative force, accelerating the art of what is possible. To fully harness this groundbreaking development, organizations must account for revised ways of working, streamlining processes and policies to ramp up their digital transformation journeys. The question that arises, how can these organizations proactively leverage these advanced models responsibly? Awareness plays a significant role in preventing organizations from treating AI, or Generative AI, for that matter, as a gold mine, or a quick-fix magic solution for instant business growth. Instead, a more recent approach is to understand the use and purpose of technology. I call it, knowing not only the capabilities and possibilities, but also the limitations and challenges of working with AI. Such awareness paves the way to understand additional risk we undertake as we advance in AI. Addressing such evolving risk requires new skills to build responsible systems by design. Speaking of skills, there is a large looming fear of losing jobs to automation. That's why organizations must be open about their technology adoption plans with their teams. Job displacement is a significant concern in the ever evolving landscape of technological progress, like the one Generative AI brings. Even McKinsey points to a tough job market for roles centered on repetitive task, data collection, and elementary data processing. So, where is the market headed? Are there any sectors expecting an influx of jobs? Are new job opportunities emerging? Well, the report helps there too by indicating higher demand for social-emotional and digital skills. So, applicants know the leading indicators to make the strategic moves. But what about organizations? Throughout history, automation has disrupted job markets, making some belief that we will sail through this transformation too. However, automation through Generative AI cast a much wider net this time. As they say, it's not a matter of whether, but when. It's only a question of time. Until there is a formal policy managing the reduced need for human labor, organizations must proactively take the lead. They can do so by providing a transition period, allowing the employees to rescale and upskill for alternative roles within or outside the organization. Discussions around displacement tax involve imposing tax if the affected workers are not adequately assisted through retraining, with an aim to ensure continuous organizational support. Beyond managing workforce sentiment, embracing change introduces the challenge of adopting new technology, particularly in integrating AI solutions into operations. However, such changes demand change in organizational policies. And change, by its very nature, implies transitions, which often brings uneasiness. After all, moving on from established norms and processes disturbs the familiarity with usual activities and processes, right? Amid these challenges, change management emerges as a linchpin, providing a structured approach to managing reorganizations and restructuring. It serves as a business roadmap that anticipates challenges and facilitates a smoother transition into the AI driven future. It is a very vast topic that merits its own dedicated course. However, I will distill five essential factors for a smoother adoption of AI governance, starting from an AI vision rooted in human-centric principles. As the journey progresses, the significance of change management becomes crucial. Relying on the art of expectation management, a skill best cultivated when AI literacy is woven into the fabric of the organization. Lastly, the success of any AI project hinges on continuous refinement. Now that we have successfully explored the framework for implementing governance, let us discuss the next steps.