Advancing AI governance in your organization
- [Presenter] Congratulations, you have reached the end of the course. Your commitment to understand the governance landscape will help you stay on course with the evolving developments. Gaining insights into current regulations and developments can help you swiftly align existing governance frameworks with what the regulations expect. It plays a significant role in ensuring business continuity and establishing your trusted brand and confidence in handling AI, a crucial aspect in a competitive landscape. Let us do a small exercise and share what message these two sentences convey. Ultimately, all evolving discussions around regulating AI are centered around reducing harm without compromising its social economic benefits versus ultimately, all evolving discussions around regulating AI are centered around realizing AI's social economic benefits without causing harm. See? How these two sentences are so similar except that the one prioritizes reducing harm and the other one focuses more on benefits, ensuring no harm. Isn't it strange? It is all about context, perspectives, and narratives, or should I say it depends upon where we are paying attention literally and figuratively. I know you must be thinking, till the chaos is put into order, what shall we the users do? Do we have a role to play to safeguard ourselves? Yes, we are critical to the success of the Gen AI revolution. While effective mobilization of AI governance may take time, it is incumbent on us as users of such advanced technology to criticize what we are presented with. Always fact-check before making informed decisions on utilizing such information. This necessitates awareness of the associated risk and active advocacy to make it work for the benefit of humanity. Besides being aware, we must question everything around us. A quick check through multiple resources helps surface the correct information as well as instills confidence in consuming the as tested content. In short, the changing world has changed the status quo. Personally, I have embraced the practice of approaching everything with initial doubtfulness rather than assuming it as a fact.